MATT: Hello everybody,
and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role,
where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around
and play Dungeons & Dragons.
ALL: (discordant yelling) We play Dungeons & Dragons!
MATT: That one, all of that.
Before we get into tonight's episode,
we do have a few announcements to get through,
beginning with the first of our two sponsors,
NordVPN. Sam.
SAM: Ctrl-alt-good day, fellow netheads.
It's me, BlackWillow69@aol.com!
LAURA: And Cryptonic Override.
It's been a few gigaflops
since we've had to hash out our hacker haptics
because the worldwide web has been totally safe.
SAM: Yeah! It's thanks to NordVPN,
providers of the highest quality encryption
for your internet traffic that hides your IP
and physical location.
Go to nordvpn.com/criticalrole
and use code CRITICALROLE
at checkout to get a two-year plan
plus one additional month with a 70% discount.
But yeah, like Cryptonic Override said,
the Ultra Kodex has gone into cyber hibernation.
And the threat level is once again
midnight.
LAURA: So today, we're going to do something fun,
and take the cast on a VR tour of hackerspace
courtesy of our friends at NordVPN.
SAM: Is everybody ready to jack yourselves live on camera?
MARISHA: Wait, what?
MATT: Sure.
ASHLEY: Sounds super fun.
MATT: All right.
TRAVIS: Sure.
SAM: Okay, let's do it!
Getting ready to supernova the Wonderwall.
LAURA: Connecting Miami to the sound machine.
SAM: Running Harry protocol on the Hendersons.
And... we're...
in the main frame!
ALL: Whoa.
MATT: This is incredible.
MARISHA: Okay, this is kind of cool.
LIAM: So many angry Matt Key videos.
Where in the internet are we?
MARISHA: Oh, this must be Brittany Walloch's Vimeo.
This is dope.
ASHLEY: Whoa, whoa, whoa.
Now we're somewhere else.
Whoa. What is this strange writing, hieroglyphics?
TALIESIN: It's Aramaic. It must be my MySpace account.
Wow, it's really old.
TRAVIS: Ooh, well, let me see if I can hack into
Brian Foster's porn collection.
Wait. What's that bright light?
SAM: Uh-oh. Wait, wait, wait, Travis.
Watch out, Travis!
TRAVIS: (screaming)
LAURA: What's wrong?
SAM: Oh no!
Travis has been techno-blepped
by a high-tension, 64-bit nanovirus!
MARISHA: What? In English, Riegel! Is he dead?
SAM: No, no, no. He's just frozen.
He can be rebooted, but only by
(keyboard typing)
(gasps)
the Ultra Kodex.
It's back.
Everyone quick. Jack off.
Everyone jack off right now!
LIAM: Excuse me?
LAURA: He means to unplug.
SAM: Unplug, unplug, unplug.
MATT: Okay. All right.
SAM: (sighing)
LAURA: That was a closed loop, NordVPN-guarded internet.
There's no way the Ultra Kodex could have infiltrated it.
SAM: Unless the Ultra Kodex is...
here in this room?!
TALIESIN: That's impossible.
SAM: Is it?
Quick, what do we know about the Ultra Kodex?
What clues do we have?
LAURA: Well, it's super powerful.
It worked with the Serial Killer.
MARISHA: And it called Matt
that really weird specific nickname, remember?
SAM: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You latex dork, remember that?
MARISHA: Uh-huh.
SAM: Wait a second.
You latex dork.
Let me key that phrase
into our NordVPN manual override de-scrambler.
Oh my god.
If you de-scramble it, it says,
Ultra Kodex.
That means that--
(gasping)
Matt, you are the Ultra Kodex!
MATT: (evil laughter)
So you finally discovered my secret.
But it's too late!
I fragged Travis' body,
and won't de-frag it until my demands are met.
TRAVIS: (giggles)
SAM: Why is he laughing, then?
(laughter)
You monster!
Keep it still, Travis.
What are your demands?
MATT: I'll tell you...
the next time NordVPN sponsors this show.
SAM: Oh, damn it!
Well, I guess we'll have to wait.
Protect yourselves from cyber attacks
and avoid bandwidth issues with NordVPN.
And Matt, as much as I hate to say it:
Hack to you.
MATT: Thank you, Sam.
LIAM: Intrigue.
SAM: You guys can see--
ASHLEY: Travis is still frozen.
SAM: Oh no.
ASHLEY: Travis!
MATT: It's over.
LAURA: Travis, you're fine.
MATT: Travis, you can--
LAURA: You're fine.
MATT: Okay, there we go.
TRAVIS: My face hurts. I got a cramp on the right side.
SAM: Nothing in the Nordiverse--
Once the ad is over,
like, we reset.
TRAVIS: Oh.
MATT: Yeah.
ASHLEY: Time stops.
SAM: Yeah.
ASHLEY: This part isn't real.
TRAVIS: Restarting the computer, I got it.
MATT: Exactly.
Thank you, Sam.
LAURA: Don't watch me undress, camera.
(laughter)
MATT: Look at me. Look at me. Look over here!
Look at me! All right.
Thank you, NordVPN.
Our second sponsor for the night is Skillshare.
So for those who aren't familiar
with our friends at Skillshare
who are sponsoring this episode:
They are an online learning community
with thousands of inspiring classes for creative
and curious people
to go ahead and learn all sorts of new skills.
They offer classes designed for real life
and all the circumstances that come with it,
including graphic design, creative writing
and music, as well as many more.
So with memberships starting as low as $10 a month
with an annual subscription,
Skillshare is a great way to learn and explore classes
to unlock your creativity for social good.
As a special offer for our audience here,
the first 1000 Critters to join Skillshare
by following the link,
which-- is pardon me here--
skl.sh/criticalrole01211
That's right.
Very easy.
TRAVIS: What?
MATT: skl.sh/criticalrole01211
ASHLEY: What?!
MATT: You will get a free trial
of a premium membership.
SAM: 0211?
MATT: 01211, Sam!
SAM: It's not like 2021, like the year or something?
MATT: That's what it says on the paper!
SAM: Why would they do that?!
I love them. Please sponsor our show.
LIAM: Is this the first spot bleeding into the second spot?
MATT: I know, right?
(laughter)
MARISHA: That's what it feels like!
MATT: skl.sh/criticalrole01211
(laughter)
You'll get a free premium membership.
So go check out Skillshare for yourself now.
And thank you so much for our friends at Skillshare
for sponsoring this show.
MARISHA: Yeah.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Couldn't have remembered that.
MATT: Ah--!
LAURA: There should be graphic at the bottom saying
the actual.
MATT: Yeah, follow the graphic.
Follow the graphic.
If I'm wrong, follow the graphic.
TRAVIS: (high-pitched) "That's what it says on the paper!"
(laughter)
MATT: Also, starting tonight,
we are broadcrasting-- broadcrasting.
We're broadcrasting Critical Role
live on both Twitch and YouTube channels.
But still the best place
to participate in the live experience
is with our community at the Twitch channel itself.
As per usual, tonight's VOD will be available right away
on our Twitch channel.
And this episode will be uploaded
to YouTube as VOD on Monday at noon Pacific.
So no changes there at all.
Everything's good to go.
Laura, you had some announcements.
LAURA: Eyy!
We are excited to announce our partnership with
WizKids, which does
high-quality miniatures from our very own Exandria
that you can place within your own world,
that you're creating or exploring.
Our first--
Oh gosh, wow.
Six box sets of premium printed, painted--
Nope.
Premium painted figures will be available this spring
at local game stores across the world, you guys.
But for a peek at the miniatures included
in our first offerings with WizKids,
check out our announcement on our website
at critrole.com.
SAM: I think you mean critrole.com/
LAURA: 112.
SAM: ~1-7.
(laughter)
Russian E.
TRAVIS: "Russian E."
MATT: I'm super excited.
LIAM: Miniatures!
LAURA: Yeah, it's going to be awesome.
MATT: As you know, I'm a fiend for miniatures
for, well, going on, like, 15 years.
So--
LAURA: That doesn't--
That doesn't track, Matt.
MATT: Come across at all?
LAURA: No, it doesn't.
MATT: I'm sorry.
Well, for those who didn't know, I like minis.
And I'm super excited for you guys to check these out.
It's been awesome.
All right. I think that's it and that's all.
So without further ado,
let's go ahead and jump into tonight's episode of
Critical Role.
(dramatic shouting)
(water bubbling)
(thunder rumbling)
(explosion)
♪ Role ♪
♪ Critical Role ♪
♪ Mighty Nein ♪
♪ Roll the dice ♪
♪ The adventure begins ♪
♪ They were always beside you ♪
♪ Your nerdy best friends ♪
♪ And the DM to guide you ♪
♪ And they rise from flames for the battles ahead ♪
♪ Villains beware 'cause you're about to be dead ♪
♪ They got magic and flair ♪
♪ They got falchions and cunning ♪
♪ They don't see over there ♪
♪ There's a monster incoming ♪
♪ Inspiration is waiting ♪
♪ Rise up, don't think twice ♪
♪ Put your fate in your hands ♪
♪ Take a chance, roll the dice ♪
♪ Roll the dice ♪
♪ Critical Role (roll the dice) ♪
♪ Can you answer the call ♪
♪ Diggin' deep in your soul ♪
♪ As the legend unfolds ♪
♪ Now it's your turn (your turn, your turn) ♪
♪ To roll ♪
(flames whooshing)
MATT: Welcome back.
(laughter)
So, last we left off:
The Mighty Nein have been making their way
across Eiselcross, the frozen north.
CAST: ♪ Making my way ♪
MATT: Trying to outdo the Tomb Takers in the retrieval
of the threshold crests that they are carrying
towards the ruins of Aeor
for some sort of nefarious purpose,
you assume deals with the Cognouza.
So after convening with them against your will,
you've been traveling with them
in an odd,
tense social environment.
You traversed the lava river that cuts
through Eiselcross magically.
And before the second to last day of travel came to an end,
you made some conversation.
You made an offer to perhaps read and help Lucien
with some of the book that he is apparently
unable to completely unravel.
You went and plotted a bit within your tower,
discussing different possibilities
of turning events into your favor.
Lucien, however did knock at the door
wondering what you were all doing
in this strange, extra-dimensional space.
After a brief bit of miscommunication
and a door slammed in his face,
he canceled the tower.
And left you all out in the frozen snow
for another night of not as comfortable rest.
SAM: Betch.
MATT: As you all took a moment to adjust
to your unfortunate fortune,
Jester decided to go ahead and offer a tarot card reading.
Lucien, intrigued, sat and accepted.
And after an oddly poignant series of pulls,
it had a series of unexpected effects on Lucien
before he, mildly unnerved, stood up and walked away.
So,
as you all now adjust to the coming freezing night here
in the frozen tundras of the north,
you watch as Lucien returns to the campfire,
not but 30, 40 feet from where you stand.
What would you like to do?
LAURA: (nervous noise)
LIAM: How do we do this again?
LAURA: I guess--
SAM: Why? We just did this last week.
LIAM: [inaudible]
LAURA: I guess we need the--
MATT: It's the evening.
LAURA: -- the dome then.
LIAM: Yeah.
(sighing)
(sucking teeth) Okay.
Right where we have the
far more plush tower, I suppose.
Are we good to have a little bit of space?
MATT: "A bit of space, sure."
LIAM: Okay.
Slap the book down on my lap and begin to do the thing.
Take me about 10 minutes.
MATT: All right.
As you guys are all puttering around and building a bit,
you can see the fire that they've situated on the side
and they've heated up some sort of liquid
and begun finishing up their meals.
Lucien looks back over your space and goes,
"Now don't be pouty.
"You're welcome to come and sit by the fire.
"Share a drink."
SAM: Sure. I've never turned down a drink before.
TRAVIS: I'll join.
ASHLEY: I'll join.
TALIESIN: I'll watch.
MARISHA: All right.
MATT: All right.
All right. So who all's going to the fire?
TRAVIS and LAURA: (laugh)
ASHLEY: I'll go.
LAURA: No, I'm cold.
SAM: To the fire? Yeah.
MATT: All right.
MARISHA: I stand next to Caduceus.
TRAVIS and LAURA: [inaudible]
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA and TALIESIN: Yeah.
MARISHA: That's it.
LAURA: Yeah, I'll go over.
SAM: What's your drink of choice?
MATT: "Well," looks over towards Zoran,
who you can see has this
leather-wrapped cask of some kind
that he keeps shouldered to the side.
"We're a bit low on the interior heating provisions,
"but we've a bit enough of the strong stuff
"to keep spilling about."
He goes ahead and take some and pours it
into this, what looks like a metal
kind of a heavy cauldron, if you will.
Like a small portable cauldron.
And begins to add these,
spices and elements.
It's less of a drink
and it's more of a mildly alcoholic stew,
if that makes any sense.
LAURA: That sounds really gross.
TRAVIS: Mulled wine with protein.
MATT: Yeah.
MARISHA: I'm kind of here for it.
LAURA: Is there, like, beef in there?
LIAM: I want it.
LAURA: Or like what?
MATT: "Oh, all sorts of things
that we were able to gather, muster.
TRAVIS and SAM: Mustard?
MATT: "Let's just say it's--
"Muster.
"Things we were--
"If you have some mustard, you're welcome to add it,
"if you like."
ASHLEY: I don't have any-- do you have any mustard?
TALIESIN: I do. I think that'd be a terrible idea, though.
MATT: "Fair enough."
(laughter)
MATT: "Well,
"if you'd like some."
And he goes out and points over to Tyffial begins to
take this large ladle and is expectant.
If you had any sort of bowls or cups or something to--
MARISHA: Yeah, pull out my canteen.
LAURA: Sure we've got jangle jangles
hanging on our belts and stuff, right?
TRAVIS: There were a couple of cups--
LAURA: Like the Ren Faire?
TRAVIS: I think we have at least four or five.
TALIESIN: I've got one.
If anybody doesn't have one,
I'll toss out three cups.
MARISHA: I imagine it's like Ren Faire.
We all have one on our hip.
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: Yeah, you all have your
casual travel cup, if you will.
MATT: It is a
curious slop that you can see is
designed primarily for function,
not for enjoyment.
And the bit of an alcoholic tinge it has
is more for interior warmth than any sort of buzz.
It is not--
It's a unique flavor. It is--
It is the Vegemite of the travel world.
LIAM: (groans)
MATT: But as it's slopped around,
Lucien glances amongst you all.
Kind of a half-cocked grin.
"No hard feelings."
TRAVIS: Of course not.
SAM: No, why would there be?
TRAVIS: I think it's just simple miscommunication.
We're learning how to communicate, I think.
MATT: "Right, right.
"Well, since we're all friends around here,
"who's got a story to tell?
"It's quite dark out here
"and enjoyments, entertainment is hard to come by."
TRAVIS: Do you spend a lot of time on the sea?
MATT: "Me? Not particularly, not in a long time."
TRAVIS: Well, I have a giant Leviathan snake creature
chasing me every time I set out on the open water.
MATT: "No shit."
TRAVIS: It's true. Yes.
Apparently, I made some sort of a bargain
and I have had a hell of a time
untangling myself from it, let me tell you.
MATT: "Well.
"Not every day you meet someone
"who's being pursued by a sea creature."
TRAVIS: That's very true.
MATT: "Ah! Good thing you're not far from the water,
"are you?"
TRAVIS: Are we far from the water?
MATT: "For now."
TRAVIS: Good.
MATT: "We're traveling east.
"Don't go too far east past the mountains."
TRAVIS: Yes, of course.
I know what's over there.
(laughter)
MARISHA: (clearing throat)
MATT: "No tales?"
ASHLEY: This is very chunky.
MATT: "Right, it's meant for chewing."
TRAVIS: (laughs)
SAM: (disgusted noises)
ASHLEY: (throat clear)
I'll have another, I'm not driving.
TRAVIS: What about you?
I mean, you've obviously made incredible progress
on your mission, your goals.
Is there a terrible immediacy on your part?
Any sort of a clock
or another interested party you might be trying to,
I don't know, arrive before?
MATT: "Well, I mean...
"there was one I was a bit concerned about
"but that was taken cared of."
TRAVIS: Ah, yes.
MATT: "At the moment there's no...
"rush beyond just...
"taking pride in the work one does.
"And let's just say a bit of impatience for...
"those goals."
MARISHA: Tenacity.
LIAM: Frumpkin pads up through the snow,
to the circle and just sits
and begins to turn from speaker to speaker listening.
As you guys talk.
LAURA: Frumpkin, come sit in my lap!
Frumpkin.
LIAM: (cat footsteps)
LAURA: Yes!
MATT: "I take it you know about goals."
LAURA: Goals?
SAM: We do. We do. We've--
MATT: "Are you all just wanderers?
"Or do you have particular things
you're trying to accomplish?"
LIAM: (meow)
SAM: No, we all have our own unique set of goals.
Some of them we've made progress on.
And some are just sort of wandering around
hoping that they'll solve themselves.
MATT: "Right."
TALIESIN: I'm mostly fine.
(laughter)
MATT: "I think there's a story in you somewhere."
TALIESIN: Well, probably.
I feel like I've been writing my first story
for the last while.
I don't know know if it's finished yet.
I've spent most of my life at home.
MATT: "I got the feeling."
TALIESIN: Huh. (chuckles)
SAM: Speaking of your story, Caduceus,
do we know what corrupted your woods yet?
Did we solve that?
TALIESIN: We do not actually.
I mean, there's been thoughts in that direction.
I mean, I assume there's been thoughts in that direction.
MARISHA: Why didn't you want to investigate
the corruption in the woods, in the ruin?
MARISHA: Were you not--
TALIESIN: It was different.
It felt different.
MARISHA: How can you be so sure?
Even if it was different, it could provide answers.
TALIESIN: Maybe.
It--
I suppose for the same reason that--
It's one thing to find the bones of something
that died a long time ago
versus walking up to something that's still gasping.
So you don't know what's still around.
It's not the best metaphor I've ever had, but...
What happened to my home was slow.
Took time.
It was just death,
or at least that's how it felt.
And down there, I don't know what that was.
LAURA: Has the corruption been happening
since you were born, or did it start after?
TALIESIN: It started before. Started before.
MATT: Mm-hmm.
TALIESIN: Okay.
Started before.
It's been slowly eroding over...
decades and decades.
SAM: Maybe a collection of wise minds,
like a Somnovem, could help solve that problem.
TALIESIN: Somnova?
SAM: Well yeah. Isn't that what they're called?
MATT: "It's certainly possible."
TALIESIN: Oh!
I genuinely haven't thought about it.
MATT: "How much do you know about the Somnovem?"
SAM: Huh, me?
MATT: "You."
SAM: Not-- not particularly much.
Seems to--
Well, you know, my--
my husband is a scientist
and so he studies the, you know, the root names of things.
Novum seems like nine, maybe could be.
So, I don't know, something about nine in there.
That's all I kind of gleaned.
MATT: "Then where would you get the strange idea
"of nine being important?"
SAM: (laughs)
Well, you know, I think you're teasing me.
MATT: "I think you're right.
"The Somnovem are strange.
"Well, strange is the wrong word.
"The Somnovem are mad."
SAM: They're ma-- they're mad, like crazy mad or-- (roar)
MATT: "More of the former."
SAM: Oh.
MATT: "Absolutely batty.
"Brilliant, though.
"Quite brilliant.
"Beings-- a being?
"It's hard to find the right terminology.
"(sighs) Dreams and imagination.
"They have power over matter in the astral realm.
"And when the greatest imaginations become one
"and only know suffering over a thousand years.
"Well, that builds into
an extraordinary being without focus.
"Unstoppable force driven by instinct.
"It's dangerous, all right.
"But those with imagination,
"the things I can imagine for them.
"How about you?"
TALIESIN: Is that what you think you're bringing to it?
Focus?
MATT: "No, I'm asking you questions now."
SAM: What would we know about that, though?
MATT: "I'm asking if you have imagination."
SAM: Oh!
MATT: "Your goals, your future,
the things you want to see.
"The changes you want to bring."
SAM: Well, there's been a lot of strife
between the two nations on the continent.
We've definitely tried to help them heal
and bring peace to the world.
That would be a nice direction
to focus the energy of your wise friends, I guess?
MATT: "That's a very noble cause."
LAURA: I would like to domesticate unicorns.
(stifled laughter)
LIAM: Frumpkin just goes--
SAM: For like, um...
like breeding and racing?
Or milking? Or--
LAURA: Like keeping as pets, you know?
SAM: Cool.
MATT: Lucien kind of tilts back and goes--
"Perhaps not quite as noble,
"but equally respectable."
LAURA: Thank you.
MATT: "How about you,
"angel blood?"
ASHLEY: Me?
MATT: "What depths of your imagination?"
MARISHA: "Angel Blood" is a cool nickname.
LAURA: (whispering) You can call her that.
MARISHA: I can't call her the name
that the mad man just--
TRAVIS: Sure you can.
ASHLEY: I think I--
I have quite an imagination, but...
I don't fully know what my goals are yet.
MATT: "That's okay."
SAM: Would you want to discover more about your lost time?
TALIESIN: Huh.
ASHLEY: Uh...
yes and no, I--
I forget that you don't know (sighing)
a lot about me already.
But, um...
there's a period of time that I lost,
and I don't know how long it was.
And I don't fully know what I did.
But I know, um...
it probably wasn't all good.
MATT: "Maybe it's best left in the past."
ASHLEY: Sometimes I think that.
MATT: "Well,
"maybe you're just not ripe yet.
"Maybe a goal will find its way to you in time.
"There's no rush."
ASHLEY: Yeah.
MATT: "I take it yours is to cut free this
"terrifying sea serpent that wants vengeance?"
TRAVIS: Actually, I'm enjoying sort of him being
on my tail, at least gives me an idea of where he is.
Better the enemy that you know
than the one that you don't, yes?
MATT: "True to that."
TRAVIS: It's more like wanting to...
close the book on him on my terms.
I think I have the ability to do that as well.
Just take a few more steps.
MATT: "All right.
"What about you?"
MARISHA: What are my goals or do I have an imagination?
You've asked a few questions.
MATT: "Goals take imagination."
MARISHA: Yes, they do.
MATT: "So, what do you imagine your goals to be?"
MARISHA: It's interesting.
Kind of at a point where
I've achieved a lot of my larger goals.
Now I'm just following open doors.
This being the latest.
MATT: "Hm."
MARISHA: I think this will inform
my future goals pretty heavily.
MATT: "Fair enough.
"You said you're set in your story."
TALIESIN: Well.
You asked what I wanted and I think I figured it out.
I want to,
change a heart
and a mind, and save a soul.
This one.
MATT: "Well.
"There's a lot in the world...
"not yet discovered.
"And a lot of possibility...
"yet to be harnessed.
"How about you?"
LIAM: I'm not there.
MATT: Oh, that's right, you--
LIAM: But--
MATT: He says to the cat.
(laughter)
LIAM: Then he hears-- only he-- in his ear, hears:
You seem to know a lot about this...
entity.
What makes you think you could bend its power
to your wishes in the first place?
TRAVIS: Only Lucien hears that?
LIAM: He's using the Message spell.
MATT: He responds and you guys--
LIAM: That is from Jester's lap. It's just like this.
MATT: You hear the response, though all the rest of you
just see him staring at Frumpkin.
LAURA: (whispering) Why is he staring at my lap?
MATT: "You presume much, broody one.
"But...
"I see a lot of curiosity in you, too.
"Perhaps we're more alike than you'd think."
LIAM: Well, there is much I would like to do
with my years left in this world.
MATT: You see him break his eye contact with Frumpkin.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Where does your imagination lie?
MATT: "Got a few ideas.
"Some of them vengeful,
"some of them curious,
"some of them...
"I don't know.
"Wild."
LAURA: Do the Somnovem make you nervous?
MATT: "They did at first.
"But I've met them.
"Truly met them, once.
"I don't know, feels like we're family."
LAURA: Do you think you can control them?
MATT: "I don't think I can control them,
"but I think I have something to offer."
MARISHA: You want to be a part of them.
MATT: "I have some ideas to be mutually beneficial."
MARISHA: You said that they were mad.
Do you consider yourself to be mad?
MATT: "Well, I think it takes--
"takes a bit of madness to truly unlock the imagination."
TALIESIN: What could they possibly want?
Can't even imagine.
MATT: "Well, continue along with us.
"Maybe you could ask them yourself."
TALIESIN: I'm curious of your opinion.
TRAVIS: Do we know how old he is?
LIAM: Lucien?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
LIAM: I don't think so.
MATT: You don't.
"Well, this has been a fine bit of conversation.
"But every one of you look a bit knackered.
"I appreciate the comfort.
"Hope you enjoyed the--
"What would you call this, Zoran?"
He sits there chewing something heavy in his jaw and goes,
"Shit."
(laughter)
(as Lucien) "For his meal.
"Rest well.
"We'll be up early in the morning.
"A lot of traveling to do.
(palms rubbing)
"Dream well."
SAM: You too.
Thanks for the... chowder.
LAURA: Thanks for the shit.
TRAVIS: ♪ Thanks for the shit ♪
MATT: (laughs)
TALIESIN: I didn't really touch my cup,
so I'm going to bring it back for Caleb.
LAURA: I didn't realize we were talking about larger goals.
You know, like life goals.
I just thought we were talking about things we want.
SAM: I never knew that was in your--
LAURA: I mean, I think it would be cool.
I don't know if--
SAM: Sounds so crazy.
TALIESIN: Pretty good idea.
SAM: Like as a business or--?
LAURA: Who knows? I think it would be great.
I don't know if I even want to do it.
I just want somebody to do it.
SAM: Have you ever seen a unicorn?
LAURA: Yeah, of course I've seen unicorns.
Obviously.
SAM: Like really?
LAURA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: I thought they were rare.
LAURA: Well, I have the gift.
SAM: Oh, you have to believe to see them, right?
LAURA: What is this, a child's fairytale?
SAM: I don't know. I've never seen one.
How did you see these?
TRAVIS: Have you seen a real unicorn?
LAURA: The Traveler has shown me many things.
ASHLEY: I didn't-- I didn't--
I don't think I knew that they were real.
LAURA: What do you guys think I talk about all the time,
fake stuff?
ALL: Uhh.
(laughter)
LAURA: No, they're real.
They're super real.
ASHLEY: I think that'd be pretty
cool if they were domesticated.
LAURA: What, do you think fairies are fake, too, you guys?
SAM: No! No.
Those are clearly real.
ASHLEY: Very real.
LAURA: Fairies are real.
They're real.
TRAVIS: Okay. I've never seen a fairy either, so--
TALIESIN: Fairies is one thing,
but a protruding growth on the head of a horse,
that's just madness.
(laughter)
MARISHA: It's a horn.
It's a horn, Caduceus.
TALIESIN: It's just weird.
I don't think that's possible.
Neither man or nature.
MARISHA: (laughs)
ASHLEY: What would you have told him, though?
If-- you know?
LAURA: I don't know.
SAM: Get your mom and dad back together?
LAURA: That's kind of what I'm thinking.
SAM: Want to go back and tell him?
LAURA: No! Why would I tell him that?
SAM: I thought we were sharing personal things.
LAURA: No, I'm not going to run up to him and go,
"Hey, I want my mom and dad to get back together."
TRAVIS: Remember, the last time we shared something.
We shared a vial of our blood
and that did no favors for us.
LIAM: You know, you don't have to stand outside of the dome.
You can come inside of the dome.
LAURA: Oh. Hi, Caleb.
TRAVIS: Oh yeah.
LIAM: Hello.
LAURA: Here's your cat.
LIAM: (cat noise)
TALIESIN: And your shit.
LIAM: What is this?
ASHLEY: It's delicious.
TALIESIN: It's shit, apparently.
LAURA: Chewy shit.
TRAVIS: So good.
LAURA: Not as warm-- oh ho ho ho ho ho ho.
MARISHA: I am a bit bothered by one thing.
LAURA: (laughs)
What is it?
MARISHA: Well, now I'm bothered by another thing.
What the fuck is that?
Oh god.
(laughter)
LIAM: That's just math.
MARISHA: The man has asked us, like, three times,
our goals as a group.
And we sort of dance around them every time.
We sort of have an amorphous idea
of what we're doing and what we would like to accomplish.
And that's more or less
just stopping whatever the hell he's doing.
But--
(sighing)
LIAM: You also to wonder why he's even tolerating
us being around.
SAM: Can I share a crazy conspiracy theory
that I just had when we were talking to him?
LIAM: I have a feeling like you're going to.
SAM: I don't think this is true,
but, you know,
I think a little bit of you have rubbed off on me.
MARISHA: I love it.
SAM: I'm seeing everything.
MARISHA: Yeah.
Give it to me. Nom, nom, nom.
SAM: All right.
So he was talking about the
some navum, Somnovem.
MARISHA: Yeah.
SAM: Oh.
LAURA: A little quieter.
MARISHA: Yeah.
LAURA: We're talking quieter now.
MATT: Okay.
TALIESIN: Or can you do the--
SAM: He's talking about the Sum-nah-vum.
Novum.
MARISHA: Some-- somnavahm.
SAM: He described them.
He described them as a collection of individuals
who together were much more powerful
than they were apart.
And that they were aimless.
He's also told us that we have a particular role
in whatever this ceremony thing is that he's going to do.
So my conspiracy theory is--
MARISHA: We're the--
SAM: Yes.
MARISHA: The bodies.
SAM: We're the Somnovem.
MARISHA: We're the Somnovem.
SAM: That's my conspiracy theory.
MARISHA: We're going to be the proxies.
SAM: We're the Mighty Nein.
The Nein eyes.
LAURA: We need one more, though,
if Molly's going to be one, too-- Lucien.
MARISHA: Well.
LIAM: That would potentially
answer my question, which is
why haven't they tried to kill us yet?
MARISHA: Well, we already know that
he wants something to do with us there.
Or else he would've.
LAURA: I hope my Somnovem is super hot.
SAM: Wait, wouldn't it just be you?
Or--
LAURA: Oh, well, I guess that's true.
MARISHA: (laughs)
LAURA: I hope it's got a hot personality.
SAM: Oh, okay, okay.
MARISHA: Hot on the inside.
LAURA and MARISHA: Yeah.
SAM: Yeah.
That's what you mean when you say hot.
Yeah.
LAURA: Yeah.
MARISHA: I like that theory.
SAM: Yeah, they need bodies.
And we're the bodies
that they they're going to go into.
But they're not.
Because we're going to stop this from happening.
MARISHA: One, two, three, four, five, six, seven.
How many of them are there?
There's five.
LAURA: Oh no, what if he doesn't need all of us?
What if they--
Somnovem get to pick which ones they like best.
SAM: You think they're going to pick them over us?
Look at you and look at Otis.
Come on.
MATT: You glance over across the way
and see Otis sitting there going--
(messy eating sounds)
MARISHA: (laughs)
SAM: Come on.
LIAM: Which direction is Lucien looking at the moment?
MATT: Lucien is across the fire,
but looking in your direction.
LIAM: Yeah.
Yeah, so there are no secrets here.
Hello?
MARISHA: Did he react?
LAURA: Sometimes he doesn't react to us.
Sometimes he does.
MATT: You can make a--
make an insight check to see if you
make out any sort of flinch or reaction at this distance.
MARISHA: Okay.
Poop. 15.
MATT: 15. Is it hard to see this distance.
He does have the campfire in his face, which is helpful.
But you're-- you know, you're far enough away
to where you can't quite see any sort of flinch.
MARISHA: I mean, that makes sense to me,
especially considering he is a proxy himself, right?
And he's already been several different people,
I guess.
I don't know how this shit works.
So--
TRAVIS: Yeah, he said he met them once.
And you were like, (incoherent noises)
MARISHA: I'm assuming when he was,
like, fractured in pieces in the Astral Sea.
It was just floating around.
TRAVIS: So how old do we think-- like,
did he exist before Mollymauk's physical form.
And he just took that one over
or is Mollymauk, like, thousands of years old?
And--
MARISHA: I don't think so because it doesn't seem like
Lucien was really keyed into this whole thing
until he discovered that book
when he was with the Tomb Takers.
TRAVIS: Right.
MARISHA: Kind of feels like that was his big, you know,
turning on point of this whole Somnovem situation.
LAURA: Then who was he before?
Was he always Lucien?
And then the Somnovem came.
TRAVIS: Yeah, was it Lucien, Molly and Molly, Lucien or--
MARISHA: Like Lucien--
LAURA: Lucien like normal--
MARISHA: Molly.
LAURA: -- normal bad guy, right?
Then the thing takes place.
Lucien filled with a lot of other people, bad guy.
MARISHA: Well, it was kind of
Lucien and Molly at the same time
because it was a fraction of Lucien,
that found its way back
to its body.
LAURA: Right. Right.
And then that kind of grew.
LIAM: Didn't Cree--
MARISHA: Huh?
LIAM: Didn't Cree
refer to him as Nonagon
when we first ran into Cree?
LAURA: Yeah, yeah.
LIAM: Which would make one think it was Lucien Cree--
or Lucien Nonagon or Lucien/Nonagon, then Molly.
LAURA: Right. Lucien, maybe born Lucien.
They performed a ritual.
He became Lucien Nonagon.
LIAM: Spiffy new title.
LAURA: Totally. Things happen.
Another ritual gets fucked up.
Nonagon Lucien gets taken away.
Little particle Molly stays in body.
MARISHA: Yes.
LAURA: Stays with us for a while.
ASHLEY: It's still a piece of Lucien.
LAURA: Yeah.
SAM: He's in there.
LAURA: Unless Molly Molly, that
portion died when Molly died.
And then old Lucien came in
and now he's missing the one good part that he used to have,
which was Molly.
SAM: How do we get that part back in him?
MARISHA: I think that part is in him.
I think it's just,
he's the perfect case study
for if you harbor
and foster
the good side of somebody
as opposed to indulge in the worst side.
LIAM: Yeah.
SAM: Although, I mean,
not to speak ill of the dead or anything,
but, like, Mollymauk wasn't all good, right?
MARISHA: I see so much of Molly in Lucien.
That's what's trippy about it,
is you can see that piece of him.
LIAM: I don't think it's so much good and bad.
It's more Id and Ego and Super Ego.
I think that Mollymauk perhaps is--
SAM: You Zemnians with your psychoanalytical.
LIAM: Look, sometimes a tiefling is just a tiefling.
(laughter)
MARISHA: Sometimes a cult leader is just a cult leader.
TALIESIN: We had a--
We had a squirrel, back home that--
LAURA: I like this story.
LIAM: Yep.
TALIESIN: Lived--
LIAM: Go on.
TALIESIN: We had a squirrel back home
that lived in a tree that was just outside the
furthest old walls of the grounds.
LAURA: Did you feed it corn?
TALIESIN: Oh, we didn't have corn, but we did feed it nuts.
LAURA: Oh, that's good, too.
TALIESIN: So.
He was adorable, he was hand-raised,
very tame.
And then one day, just
turned, got mean.
LAURA: Did he get rabies?
TALIESIN: Well, that was what happened, yeah.
(laughter)
SAM: What is this story?
TRAVIS: Why?! What?!
TALIESIN: Story is, sometimes something from outside
can get into a person and change them.
Just change them utterly, and that thing,
you don't know how old it is,
where it came from necessarily.
But it is-- it's not that they stopped being them,
they just start being something else
that may be older, may be darker.
ASHLEY: So, Lucien is Molly's rabies?
LAURA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: I think Nonagon
is Lucien's rabies.
MARISHA: Lucien's rabies, yeah.
SAM: What a crazy phrase!
(laughter)
ASHLEY: Essentially, it's fucked.
Basically.
TRAVIS: Cool.
Well--
LIAM: I find myself wondering
if Lucien truly discovered Somnovem,
or if they discovered him or chose him,
and I just assume he's listening to me.
TALIESIN: I think they discovered and chose us.
LIAM: Well, I think that is true, but...
LAURA: Why don't we just ask him?
MARISHA: Right now?
LIAM: We kind of are right now.
MARISHA: You want us--
SAM: I don't think
he can hear us.
LIAM: I do.
MARISHA: Stick our head out the dome?
Invite him in?
TALIESIN: Maybe tomorrow when we're--
I don't know about waking people up at this point.
I also, I don't know about the rest of you,
I need to sleep.
LAURA: Yeah.
I'm going to send a message.
MATT: To?
LAURA: Lucien.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: Wait. Will it work?
LAURA: Why not?
LIAM: He's right over there.
SAM: Aren't we in, like, a magic-free dome?
LIAM and LAURA: No.
SAM: Oh, that's not how it works?
MATT: No, it's just a comfortable dome.
SAM: Wait, it doesn't keep all magic out?
TRAVIS: Nope!
MATT: No,
it can keep creatures out, if he wants it to.
SAM: I didn't know that!
MATT: And things like that.
LAURA: We're not as safe
as you thought we were!
SAM: No!
TRAVIS: My browser history
is compromised!
SAM: I thought we'd been
completely safe this whole time!
MARISHA: It's, like, a level two spell. (laughs)
SAM: Oh god!
(laughter)
I've been sleeping naked!
TRAVIS: Never sleep again.
LAURA: It's not even a full sphere, like,
people can burrow underneath it, you know?
It's just a little dome.
SAM: They've never done that, so.
MATT: No, I think it does have
some defensive capabilities there.
LIAM: It sure does.
MATT: Yeah, it's been a little bit
since I remembered that, but.
MARISHA: It's temperature controlled.
LIAM: And also, rules as written,
I have come to read that it does have a bottom,
but ours doesn't because ours doesn't.
MARISHA: Oh.
SAM: Interesting.
MARISHA: Is it like a ball?
And the bottom half of it is just underneath?
Is that how it works?
LIAM: I don't know.
I like it--
MARISHA: Magic.
LIAM: I like it like an upside down bowl.
MARISHA: Yeah.
LAURA: Yeah, just a bloop!
LIAM: Yep.
LAURA: I'm send a message to Lucien.
TRAVIS: I'ma send a message!
LAURA: I'ma send a message
to Lucien.
MATT: All right, go for it.
LAURA: Were you....
born as a baby Nonagon?
Or were you baby Lucien and Nonagon came in?
Just wondering how it works.
MATT: You see him shift his head slightly
across the way.
And then--
LAURA: I peek my head out
of the dome and look him in the eye
while I'm waiting for the answer.
MATT: He quietly responds to the spell,
though it comes to you-- it's like watching somebody
who's calling you on the phone,
but they're just around the corner.
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: Slight delay, it's a little weird.
And then he goes, "Well, I've always been Lucien.
"The Nonagon just was the next path I discovered."
MARISHA: Cult leadership.
LAURA: Oh.
Okay.
(louder) Okay!
MATT: "Sleep well!"
LAURA: You, too!
Or don't. (stammers)
MATT: (laughs)
LAURA: He was a baby, he used to be a baby.
You know, like a Lucien baby.
TRAVIS: So, Lucien baby, then Molly, then Lucien.
LAURA: Oh, no, I don't know about that.
Lucien baby, found the Nonagon...
TRAVIS: (sighs)
LAURA: It wasn't like-- it wasn't-- what I'm saying is,
I don't think it was like...
Like how the Beacon works, you know?
Where the souls come into the body
right when they're born and they discover it.
MARISHA: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
LIAM: He just self-actualized somewhere along the road.
TALIESIN: That's not--
MARISHA: He read a book
and he was like, "That sounds like a cool title."
(laughter)
LIAM: What was that, Beauregard?
MARISHA: I'm just throwing shade.
LIAM: I want to hear your shade.
MARISHA: I said he read a book and he picked a title.
LIAM: Yeah.
MARISHA: I think there is a certain amount to this
in which whatever he found in that book,
so much more would be clear if he would let us read it.
It's probably some element
where he had to be open-minded
to let the Somnovem in, right?
Like...
Little bit of column A, little bit of column B.
Someone who was willing to...
Hear voices from the Astral Sea?
TALIESIN: Tempted.
LIAM: We are talking
about something very great.
Something very beyond the ken...
of knowing.
It's a good theory, though.
SAM: What's our plan for tomorrow morning?
Are we supposed to just hike towards--
are we going to number one now?
Is that it? We have what we need?
TRAVIS: We told Essek we were on the way a while ago,
but yes, I believe we're going towards A1.
MARISHA: Gosh, and then there's Essek.
TRAVIS: We're going to be trying super, super buddy
with Lucien tomorrow so that you guys
can take a look at the book?
We've got a day left.
LIAM: Yeah.
SAM: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That should be our mission tomorrow.
TRAVIS: No killing anyone, no trying to subvert
the other members, no, okay.
LAURA: I gave him a tarot card reading.
LIAM: Yeah? How did he take it?
LAURA: He seemed bothered by it.
MARISHA: I was watching that.
LAURA: Did you see his hand shaking?
MARISHA: It twitched at the word rebirth.
LAURA: Yeah.
SAM: Did you fake it, or was it a real reading?
LAURA: Obviously it was super real.
Yeah.
TRAVIS: Obviously. Come on, Veth.
LIAM: They tend to be both.
MARISHA: Let's remember that.
He's superstitious.
TRAVIS: Or we just say the word rebirth and then we strike!
MARISHA: Yeah. It's like his code.
TRAVIS: Ahh, rebirth, argh!
(laughter)
SAM: It'll make him just fire his magic,
just a little bit off.
MARISHA: Gosh, it's so frustrating because we just need
a little bit more info.
Feel like we're at the cusp of what we know.
LIAM: So does he.
MARISHA: He was rambling about dreams, too,
and he was like, "Oh, I don't sleep, but I dream."
And also the Somnovem are dreams, but also people,
but also maybe just one of them.
LIAM: Well, he knows quite a bit,
but I think, like Mollymauk,
he's a bit of a flim-flam man.
And we're in a game of chicken here.
(laughter)
Caduceus, you have something to say?
TALIESIN: Somewhere up there, all right.
MARISHA: What are we doing with this threshold crest?
We were having a conversation about
if we try it and teleport away with it.
TRAVIS: Now we're being super, super quiet!
TALIESIN: Is there any way--
SAM: Even more quiet.
MARISHA: Yeah, this is all super quiet!
TALIESIN: Is there any way we can make sure
that our continued survival is attached
to whether or not it's accessible?
TRAVIS: I mean, if Caleb's theory is true,
the threshold crest really doesn't matter, does it?
MARISHA: Gatekeeper and the Key Master.
TRAVIS: Yeah. I don't think that's what he's after.
LIAM: Well, I think we really have
two options, with many different variations,
but they are, slaughter them now.
Or follow this road to the end.
Because we either want to stop them
from achieving whatever it is they're trying to do.
No questions asked.
Stop the end of the world or whatever we think this means.
Or we are curious.
LAURA: I'm not curious.
I'm not curious.
I know I don't want to see what they can do.
I don't want it.
But...
I also kind of like him.
I know he's a bad guy.
But it almost feels like if we say
the right order of codewords
then we can turn them back into Molly, you know?
LIAM: Well, that is one vote or argument
for following this to the end, because,
stop them now, that's not really part of the equation.
But even if we walk towards this big question mark,
there is a chance of that.
MARISHA: You mentioned saving somebody.
TALIESIN: Hmm. I did.
MARISHA: Talking about him?
TALIESIN: Of course.
MARISHA: Yeah.
SAM: Oh, I thought you meant me!
TALIESIN: No, you're fine.
SAM: Yeah, I am.
TRAVIS: (laughs)
TALIESIN: Anything from your people?
MARISHA: The last time I checked in with them
was when we got the details I think
about the root words of Somnovem and whatnot.
I don't think I have any lingering threads there, do I?
Do I, DM, with the codewords?
MATT: They're continuing to look and research into it, but.
LIAM: No dangling participles?
MARISHA: Check in with them maybe in the morning
or maybe tomorrow night if Jester has a few spells left.
TALIESIN: Actually, we could burn them now if we--
LAURA: I mean, yeah, I can check in tonight.
I can't remember if we checked in this morning or not,
but there could be, you know,
a lot more information in 12 hours.
MARISHA: I'm trying to remember.
I think it's been a few days.
TALIESIN: Maybe stress the urgency.
LAURA: Do you remember who I asked?
Who I checked in with?
MARISHA: It was...
Head honcho, Yudala Fon.
LAURA: Yudala Fon!
MARISHA: ♪ Yudala Fon! ♪
LAURA: I wrote it down, too!
I'm going to send a message to Yudala Fon.
MARISHA: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
LAURA: Hey, Yudala.
Did you find anything else about all this stuff
that we asked you to search for?
I'm with Beau, by the way.
TRAVIS: You have six words left.
MARISHA: Tell her I'm waving.
TRAVIS: That's gross.
MARISHA: Tell her I'm waving!
MATT: Tell them.
LAURA: Beau's waving!
MATT: Them.
LAURA: Tell them--
MARISHA: Tell them I'm waving.
LAURA: Beau's waving and...
she misses you!
MARISHA: (laughs)
MATT: (as Yudala) "We are looking into it.
"There has been
"some information on Aeor.
"A longer conversation."
LAURA: Oh, come on!
MATT: Come by and we can share.
(groaning)
LAURA: You kidding me?
TRAVIS: Ooh.
Ooh.
MARISHA: Oh no!
Oh no!
TRAVIS: Can't put this in writing.
SAM: It's fine.
MARISHA: Yeah.
SAM: It's fine, Beau can go back
and we'll just keep going with Nonagon.
MARISHA: And then I get back how?
SAM: Well, if the information is that good,
you'll know how to get back.
TRAVIS: Come back and we can share...
TALIESIN: That doesn't make any sense.
SAM: No, it doesn't.
(laughter)
LIAM: You're not jumping back from that far away.
MARISHA: I punch things, I cannot teleport.
LIAM: Even with help, though, it's a little precarious.
LAURA: You could come back cut in half.
You could come back with a unicorn horn!
MARISHA: Which would be awesome.
LAURA: Which would be really cool.
Think about the damage you could do, Beau.
SAM: Beau with a unicorn horn would be good.
LAURA: That would be really great.
TALIESIN: Not that-- if it comes to it, we always have
the emergency ripcord.
LAURA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: What is that again?
LAURA: Preparing it every day.
TRAVIS: What's the emergency ripcord?
TALIESIN: I'm not saying it out loud.
TRAVIS: Okay.
You're right, I should remember.
SAM: Yeah, you know.
You always-- you never forget.
TRAVIS: Nope, I got it right up here in my dome.
LAURA: He's like an elephant.
MARISHA: Larger convo, please come by.
LIAM: It's been a "whole week" since we played.
And I'm trying to remember.
(laughter)
SAM: Every Thursday!
LIAM: Every Thursday.
I'm trying to remember-- such a long week, seriously.
SAM: Epic growth hormone. (laughs)
LIAM: Wasn't there-- was there--?
(laughter)
Wasn't there armor that I had not identified yet?
I identified that rod, but there was magic armor.
LAURA: The rod...
TALIESIN: Oh yeah, I would love that.
TRAVIS: I wish I'd stayed away from
that elk antler, man.
TALIESIN: I would love to clean up any of that
that we need to do.
LAURA: I can't remember what the rod did.
It was just a platinum rod, right?
It wasn't even, like--
LIAM: Well, the rod was identified.
It was a Rod of Fear?
I think.
MATT: I have to remember.
It's been a long week.
LIAM: But there was leather armor.
SAM: What was this? What?
LIAM: In our journey a week ago,
there was leather armor.
LAURA: A Wand of Fear. I do have that.
LIAM: There was a Rod of Fear
with the property of a Wand of Fear.
LAURA: Okay.
SAM: The leather armor, you have it?
Did you identify it?
LIAM: No, I don't think I did.
And I don't know who's in possession,
I mean, we are in possession of magic armor, but I can't.
SAM: Oh wait, wait.
I wrote down something--
LIAM: Or maybe we did identify
and I just don't remember,
but it's bouncing around my head.
SAM: I wrote down-- wait, what is this?
I have...
Armor from Zana. Who's Zana?
MATT: Yeah, Zana was the leader of the team
that had head into the last ruins
that you found the corpse of.
LAURA: Oh! So we haven't identified that armor yet.
SAM: Is that the armor that you're talking about?
LAURA: But it-- wait, but it wasn't magical.
LIAM: There was some, I thought.
Maybe I'm misremembering, 'cause again, it's been a week.
MATT: Indeed, I'm looking that up right now.
TALIESIN: Hmm.
MATT: I'm going to go through my old notes.
LAURA: I bet Dani knows.
MARISHA: I was going to say, yeah, Slack Dani.
SAM: If only we had a Dani.
MARISHA: Is someone Slacking Dani?
(laughter)
LIAM: I would've remembered, though,
because we Detect Magic-ed everything
and I had, like--
MATT: No, no, I believe you.
LIAM: I had magic in my head.
I'm just going back to the...
LIAM: Basically I'm asking--
MATT: Ah, yes.
Okay, yes, I have it.
So, would you like to--?
LIAM: Yes, I'll take 10 minutes to--
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: -- Identify.
MATT: It is a set of studded leather armor
that has a fairly strong defensive property.
An Abjuration-based protective property enchanted to it.
The equivalent to what would be
plus two studded leather armor.
LAURA: Whoa!
LIAM: Okay.
That's good, not for me, but.
MARISHA: That is really good.
SAM: I can wear that.
LIAM: Yes, you can.
LAURA: Who has low AC?
They can wear it.
SAM: We're all pretty powerful at this point.
LAURA: Sure, but who's got the lowest?
TRAVIS: What's your AC?
TALIESIN: It's probably not--
SAM: 18.
TALIESIN: You probably don't need to sit with it, right?
I imagine.
LIAM: Is it attunable? Or none?
MATT: It's attuned.
LIAM: Attuned? Okay.
TALIESIN: Oh, well.
LIAM: Well, there it is.
MATT: So.
Any other business for the evening
or do you wish to rest?
LAURA: Umm...
SAM: Let's rest, let's rest.
TRAVIS: Yeah, rest up.
SAM: We've got stuff to do tomorrow.
TRAVIS: Just 'cause we were taking a vote,
I vote, we slaughter them now.
Just to make at least one in the other column.
Everyone else wants to see it out, yes?
MARISHA: (laughs)
TRAVIS: Okay.
MARISHA: Ah...
MATT: Aww, so you're the only one?
SAM: I want to see where this goes.
LAURA: I mean...
I mean...
TALIESIN: I like to give more opportunities
for things to go well.
SAM: Ah, I'm the opposite.
I want Nonagon to be my rabies.
(laughter)
LIAM: All right, My Chemical Romance.
LAURA: What do you think?
ASHLEY: I'm curious.
LAURA: Yeah?
SAM: Yeah?
ASHLEY: Yeah.
I want to see where it goes.
And also,
I feel like we can save him.
I don't know if that's very naive of me to think that.
TALIESIN: I don't think so.
SAM: It's okay to have hope.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
ASHLEY: Is it?
TRAVIS: Then we rest.
SAM: Yeah.
MARISHA: It's tough, it's
easier to hate somebody the less you know about them.
TRAVIS: Facts.
LAURA: Yeah.
ASHLEY: Yeah.
LIAM: You want to fax somebody?
TRAVIS: Yes.
SAM: All right.
MARISHA: All right, let's go to bed.
SAM: Goodnight, all.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: Caleb rubs his temples.
Slaps his face a couple of times,
and just turns into a golden retriever.
SAM: That's new.
LIAM: And walks over
and just schlumps down next to Veth
and just goes (sighs) on her feet.
SAM: Stinky dog breath!
LIAM: With his chin on her feet.
MATT: Aww.
ASHLEY: I have to give him some scritches.
SAM: Hello, hello.
Hello!
ASHLEY: I go over and I give him some.
SAM: Yeah!
ASHLEY: Oh, scritch!
SAM: We'll co-scritch.
MATT: Co-scritch! Perfect.
LAURA: Don't lay on your back, Caleb, that's weird!
SAM: He's presenting himself!
LAURA: Oh no!
LAURA: Caleb's flashing everyone.
MATT: It's super great, because about an hour later
while sleeping he just suddenly (whooshes) back into Caleb.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: (grunts)
LAURA: Butt to face.
LIAM: Continues to sleep on Veth's ankles.
MATT: Fair enough.
TRAVIS: Sleeping foot.
MATT: The Tomb Takers have watch up and about.
If any of you would like take watch
or if you're trusting them to keep watch,
that's up to you.
LAURA: Oh yeah,
we should keep watch.
ASHLEY: I'll take first watch.
MATT: Okay. Go ahead and roll a perception check, Yasha.
ASHLEY: Okay.
That would be 21.
MATT: Nice.
You do see on the peripheral,
it looks like some large shapes
begin to cross somewhat near.
You can't quite make out what they are
but you can see
Zoran and Tyffial end up leaving the fire
and going off after it.
You then hear these muffled sounds in the distance,
this like (trumpets),
these elephant-like sounds.
And then you hear (thundering footsteps).
And you-- they must've scared off
whatever was wandering too close by.
Then they return to their campsite.
But beyond that, no other issue.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: Second watch?
LAURA: Oh!
TALIESIN: Oh, well, there we are.
MATT: All right, two of you, perception check.
TALIESIN: 19.
LAURA: That's probably better than me.
Yes, 17.
TRAVIS: Her dice are fucking absurd.
MATT: Okay.
Relatively uneventful, though the snow does pick up a bit
through the night and begin to gather on the dome,
which begins to clear out visibility quite a bit.
As it begins to enclose the dome in the soft snowfall.
Kind of glance over, you can see the faint embers
that are the only point of light
in the lightless, black sky and ground around you.
Other than just the glance of Lucien just sitting there,
looking across in your direction,
keeping watch.
LAURA: Still staring?
MATT: Still staring.
But uneventful.
Third and final watch, who's taking it?
LIAM: (yawns) Yeah, okay.
MATT: All right, Caleb, go ahead and roll
a perception check for me.
LIAM: Can Frumpkin can help me?
LAURA: It never goes well!
MATT: Sure.
LIAM: But it's a help for me.
Oh, natural 20.
ALL: Hey!
MATT: Nice, nice.
The dome is covered in snow.
So you would have to reach out and
clear it off a bit to get a useful perspective.
LIAM: Oh, well, this is how Frumpkin helps me.
MATT: There you go.
LIAM: I peris-cat him out.
MATT: (laughs)
SAM: Periscat?
MATT: Peris-cat?
LIAM: Yeah.
That's a whole other show.
MATT: I don't think that means
what you think it means.
(laughter)
SAM: (blows raspberry)
LIAM: Caleb does a handstand and...
(laughter)
LIAM: Thar she blows!
MATT: Okay.
TALIESIN: The more I think about it--
TRAVIS: Peris-cat.
MATT: Tub Caleb? No.
(groaning)
LIAM: No!
SAM: Oh!
MATT: Anyway, anyway.
Oh, no.
LAURA: Oh, that's--
MATT: No! Anyway.
You hold Frumpkin beyond the dome.
LIAM: Kill us now, Nonagon!
MATT: Please.
It's the only way it can go now.
TRAVIS: I told you we should've killed him!
MATT: But you didn't believe me!
TALIESIN: I'm not doing it.
MATT: Keeping an eye out there.
Frumpkin shivers in your grasp.
Looking around, left to right,
no sign of anything dangerous in the peripheral.
Uneventful evening.
Eventually, as the light begins to come to,
it is not the clear sunrise you've met a few times out here.
It is a light snow and a gray sky above.
But nevertheless, the day does warm to a degree.
And eventually, after pushing off some of the snow
and the dome coming down and dropping the rest of it
around you in this soft pile of fresh powder,
you glance over and can see the flames
have kicked up over where the Tomb Takers are
as they are preparing themselves for the day,
having a meal and glancing over
to notice your being awake as well.
What would you like to do?
TALIESIN: Confirm my long rest.
TRAVIS: Oh, yes, thank you.
MATT: Do that.
LAURA: We lose our exhaustion point?
Had we already lost that?
MATT: I think you'd already lost that.
LAURA: Okay.
TALIESIN: Get everything else back.
SAM: I don't know that I can use that armor, guys.
I mean, if I do, I will sacrifice some stealth capability.
SAM: Nice to meet you.
LAURA: Nice to meet you!
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Who else has low AC? I'm 17.
LAURA: Whoa! Well, but I thought you had special armor.
TRAVIS: I have Mariner's Armor, which is not applicable
when we're not on water.
SAM: Not the armor of Agath--
Agatha Christie?
TRAVIS: Mm-mm. No.
MARISHA: That's a spell.
LAURA: Oh, well, Fjord could wear it, then.
That's pretty low.
TRAVIS: Anybody else have low AC?
MARISHA: I can't wear leather.
TRAVIS: You can't wear leather?
LAURA: That's unfortunate. Leather would look good on you.
MARISHA: I use my abs as my armor.
TRAVIS: Okay. What about pleather? Can you wear pleather?
MARISHA: On Saturday nights.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Yeah, I'll take it. Anybody else? Really, no?
SAM: I could use it, but I would have to--
TRAVIS: Give up stealthy stuff?
SAM: Give up this dagger.
TRAVIS: Is that a problem?
SAM: And I won't do that.
Anyway, let's go have a day!
(laughter)
LAURA: DId we notice a crazy look
in Veth's eye when she said it?
MATT: You can make an insight check.
LAURA: Okay.
TALIESIN: Genuinely no different than
the normal crazy look in Veth's eye.
MATT: I mean, you're not wrong.
LIAM: Little bit of Nott in there.
LAURA: Oh, nope, natural one.
MATT: Not at all. Not at all.
LAURA: Nope, nope.
MATT: Yeah,
if nobody else wants it, you can take it.
TRAVIS: Okay. I'll take it.
I'll put it on, but I won't attune to it just yet.
LIAM: Get that studded leather armor, stud.
MATT: Okay.
All right.
As you guys are gathering your things
and getting your meals situated.
SAM: Liam!
LAURA: Armor, plus two.
MATT: You notice
Lucien begins to approach
as they finish with the fire in the other camp.
Steps up, heavy coat on, looks like he's
all smiles this morning.
"Before we finish breakfast,
"since we had a bit of a conversation the other day,
"sure, I'd be curious."
He pulls on the cloak and pulls out
what you see to be the collection of papers
and haphazard binding on the tome
that you saw taken
from the interior of Vess DeRogna's chambers.
LAURA: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, that book.
MATT: Kind of looking over
to, holding it out.
"I assume someone wants to give it a shot?"
LIAM: Absolutely.
LAURA: He's the one that understands that sort of stuff.
MATT: "I certainly hope so.
"Here."
LIAM: Okay.
MARISHA: I scooch over to Caleb.
LIAM: Yeah, come have a seat.
MATT: So the two of you? Okay.
LIAM: I roll out a wide piece of leather
so it doesn't get snow on it and I set it down and--
TALIESIN: Resistance.
LIAM: Thank you.
Reach into my components and I pull out a black pearl.
No.
Pull out a white pearl.
TALIESIN: Guidance?
LIAM: And will cast Fortune's Favor on myself
and little geometric shapes spiral out.
LAURA: I'm going to grab his shoulders
and give him a little back rub
and say you can do this: Caleb, you got this!
Guidance.
LIAM: Okay.
Okay.
SAM: Was there some specific request?
Or is it just a general knowledge?
LAURA: I think it's going to be, like,
seeing what he can decipher.
MATT: For one thing.
LIAM: Spend some time with it.
MATT: The script, as you glance at it,
it makes no sense to you.
LIAM: Oh, well that's easy.
MATT: What languages do you-- oh.
Actually, what languages do you both know?
MARISHA: Hang on.
LIAM: Well.
MARISHA: I think it's more up-to-date on my D&D Beyond.
LIAM: I'm going to cast Comprehend Languages.
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA: And I also have that fancy,
monk--
LIAM: Read everything?
MARISHA: Read, the monk ability.
LIAM: Read all.
MARISHA: Features and traits.
Hang on, hang on.
Hold, keep going.
SAM: Hang on, but keep going.
MARISHA: Tongue of the Sun and Moon,
you can understand all spoken languages.
MATT: Correct, so--
MARISHA: Any creature
that can understand a language,
can understand you, you can't--
MATT: So it's speaking, but not reading.
MARISHA: And then...
My
languages are Common, Deep Speech, Dwarvish,
Halfling, Undercommon.
MATT: Oh, you can read it, it's Undercommon.
TRAVIS: Oh! What's up?!
LAURA: Hey!
LIAM: It's written in GWAR.
TRAVIS: ♪ Additional languages! ♪
MARISHA: Huh?
LIAM: I said it's written in GWAR.
MARISHA: Yeah.
(laughter)
MATT: You cast?
LIAM: Comprehend.
MATT: Comprehend Languages.
It's Undercommon, which you can read.
You pick this up because of your training
with the Cobalt Soul.
MARISHA: Is it like a cant?
MATT: It's written as a cipher,
meaning the language is not a common language of the writer
and it is, the way it's written is different
from most Undercommon speakers, instinctually.
So it is, you gather quickly that this
is intended as a cipher.
Now, the contents.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: Begin abruptly.
Like the early pages are no longer part of it.
They read like brief passages about historical musings,
piecing together elements of Aeor's history,
mental notes over breakfast by a confounded arcanist.
Questions they posit to themselves
about where it might lie,
what secrets made it so dangerous
to call the ire of the gods down upon it
at the height of the Calamity?
Details of odd recovered relics
from around the Frigid Depths surrounding Eiselcross
and the theories that they have
that elements of Aeor might actually be found there.
Half-finished sketches follow that
of assumed Aeorian architecture.
Discussions of the Convocation of Aeor,
the committee of mages that governed the ancient city.
Pontificating about their politics
and whether they were indeed a unified people
as some archivists suggest.
The notes then continue, like a travel log.
Making themselves the briefest of entries
regarding their journey northward.
Since they're not unlike
the Nein's own journey through here,
it discusses the harshness of the environment,
the dangers that beset them.
There's no mention of Balenpost
and no other societal handholds
up here in the north, really.
It's just desolate, uncharted tundra.
And, honestly, a deadly mystery.
There are numerous gripes about magic being unpredictable
up in this space and numerous times
and odd creatures that had to be avoided on this journey.
Very much gives you the sense
of an early explorer first coming to uncharted land.
Eventually, the entries being to speak of a massive anomaly
that they came across, a patch of frost
that's miles long, and it piques his curiosity.
More entries beyond that briefly note his entrance
to a subterranean labyrinth of corridors and structures.
Sketches of door reliefs and archways
and long dead bodies left frozen.
One perfunctory entry speaks of an uncovered text,
hurriedly scrawled before the death of its writer.
It reads,
"The philosophers abandoned us.
"The cursed, plotting dreamers
"took their whole Ward with them.
"Curse them. May they rot in--"
and it ended there.
LIAM: "May they rot in"?
MATT: In, and ended there.
The following entries muse out
the meaning of this statement,
slowly exploring more of the ruin
and trying to piece together their goings on.
Even further entries still speak of the sounds
that worry the mage.
"Things are living down in these halls," he says.
He notes his need for caution.
Eventually, an entry speaks of finding information
about some of the Aeorian Wards.
The Praesidis Ward, the Ars Ward.
LAURA: (chuckles)
MATT: Ars, A-R-S.
MARISHA: Praes, Praes?
MATT: P-R-A-E-S-I-D-I-S Ward.
MARISHA: Praesidis. Ars Ward?
MATT: Ars Ward.
And in particular, the Cognouza Ward.
A region organized by nine philosophers
who were dedicated to the ideas of manifestation
through dream and imagination
with the conduit of arcana.
Increasingly obsessed with the Astral Plane
and many of its denizens being able to forge matter
from sheer will and idea alone,
they were rumored to be plotting a succession--
or secession from the Convocation,
to abscond from the city
to their beloved Plane of dreams and ash,
as it said in some of the notes of other Aeorian denizens
that seem to be
speaking down on these philosophers.
The next entry seems to tremble with excitement
and discovery, as the mage intends
to project himself into the Astral Plane
and seek out any survivors who,
based on his findings, may have escaped.
Then,
the book changes dramatically.
The following pages are filled, top to bottom page
with nonsense, deep scratches of ink
and shapes and symbols that make no sense,
just hash marks and scratches and designs
that overlap and twist.
It is just a mess of designs and nothing.
They have no purpose or reason to them.
There's no language.
There's hints of texts, but it's not.
And your spell can't focus, it's...
It's not able to make out any language at all
because it's not language.
It's filled with nightmarish design
and incredibly detailed patterns
that catch your eye on a smaller and smaller scale.
These fractals that almost draw you in, that--
You catch yourself leaning into the pages a bit.
And then pull back for a moment and blink.
And for a second, you catch yourself wondering,
like, how much time has passed?
How long have you been looking at that page?
Just at that point, Lucien,
closes the book and goes,
"I think that's enough reading for now.
"So.
"What'd you think?"
LIAM: Whet my appetite, why don't you?
They seem a lot like
the Cerberus Assembly of their time, but,
better or worse.
Depending how you look at it.
LAURA: How long were they looking at it?
MATT: They began to read through,
and then once they got to the strange scrawlings
it was a page turn, a page turn,
a page turn.
And then they just stared at one page
quietly for about five minutes.
LAURA: Wow. Okay.
MARISHA: You said his spell was having a hard time
making sense of it?
Just looking at it.
LIAM: At a certain point,
it wasn't language anymore, it was...
MATT: Yeah, once you got to
those pages, there was no language.
It looked like a
disturbed individual's attempt
to produce a nightmare on page,
but then there was structure,
there were things that looked like glyphs,
but they were broken and
absent of any reason.
You saw patterns that
made no sense, but were also beautiful.
There was math to it at times,
but then it seemed to just scatter out into nothing.
It was infuriating for a person who has spent their life
studying structure and equation,
and the ability to control the order of the world
and the elements and focus them.
And you think back to it,
even with your Keen Mind feat,
and for the first time, oddly,
you can really not recall the details
of any of the pages you just looked at.
SAM: Whoa.
LIAM: Well, it's very much-- and I'm bumping Beauregard,
I'm not even talking to Lucien.
We're talking so much about dreams, this is--
this is dreams on paper.
MARISHA: Yeah.
LIAM: This is your friends.
Talking to the writer, in their way.
And you are able to read or make something of this?
MATT: "Not at first.
"But if you make sense of any of it, please do let me know."
MARISHA: Was I able to glean anything
in terms of pattern recognition
just for the short amount of time that I was looking at it?
With my Expositor, Chaos Crew brain?
MATT: Go ahead and make,
both of you, an intelligence check for me,
if you don't mind.
MARISHA: Just a straight?
MATT: Just a straight intelligence check.
LAURA: You get Guidance on that one.
TRAVIS: Is that why this dude doesn't sleep?
LAURA: Plus a d4.
LIAM: What kind of roll is it?
MATT: Intelligence check.
Just roll and add your intelligence modifier.
MARISHA: 19.
LIAM: 25.
MATT: Not bad.
Not bad.
You can make out,
no language, some elements of structure, it seems.
But through the sketchiness, through the chaos,
once again,
there are patterns of nine.
Patterns of nine.
Just that continuous numerical sequence.
In different ways.
Sometimes it's just little detailed hatches
against a semicircle.
Sometimes, if you look at the page from a distance,
there were elements around the border
that if you counted them up.
It was just an endless source of...
chaos built upon a singular numerical sequence.
But that was just one aspect you could glean
from so much nothing.
LIAM: It's them speaking through.
Minor question, there were sketches and drawings
of doorways and passages earlier in the book,
do they bear resemblance to the strange halls
that we have been exploring with Big Bebe?
MATT: The early sketches, not so much.
The ones at the beginning of the book
were more conjecture by the writer.
The ones that began to accompany
the actual passage into this labyrinth
begin to very much resemble
some of the ruins that you've already been through.
LIAM: Okay.
Okay.
MATT: And with that, Lucien glances back
at the rest of you.
"Well.
"Think on it a bit.
"We've got a bit of travel.
"If perhaps you've got an idea,
"come let me know."
And he turns around and walks back to the Tomb Takers.
They take the rest of their heavy packs
onto their shoulders.
They all head over to meet you guys.
LAURA: I'm going to turn back to Beau and Caleb
just before they, as they walk away
and just say: Be careful with that book.
That's what Lucien was looking at
when he became the Nonagon.
It's a pathway.
He might be doing it on purpose, you know?
MARISHA: Yes.
Yeah.
LIAM: Yeah.
SAM: You're still you, right, Caleb?
LIAM: (monster noises)
MARISHA: But I can see it, she's not wrong.
I can...
You can start to see it.
SAM: If you believe?
LAURA: (gasps) Clap your hands, Beau!
SAM: Like a unicorn?
LAURA: Clap your hands!
MARISHA: No, I'm not doing that, no.
TRAVIS: (laughs) "No, I'm not doing that."
SAM: Well, let's set off, I guess.
TRAVIS: Yep.
MATT: As you guys gather your things,
you put your packs up
and you turn and right at that moment
you can see the Tomb Takers are all standing there,
and Lucien, in not a confrontational way,
but in a definitely like,
hold up a second, sort of physicality.
Lucien goes,
"As requested, to build trust in the bridge
"that's been so asked of us,
"I've shown you something very private and personal to me.
"As a response,
"just show me that you still have it."
LAURA: Pull it out, Caleb, show him your wang.
LIAM: Fjord, show him my wang.
TRAVIS: Yeah, all right.
I'll reach into the Bag of Holding.
Produce a small piece of amber.
It's in here.
LAURA: Cute, isn't it?
MATT: "Quite clever."
MARISHA: Wave to Vess.
MATT: "(laughs)
"Two keepsakes in one?
"Well," and looks over towards to Zoran, you see
is carrying the large other one on his back.
"It's a much easier way to travel!
"Shame you don't have these fancy things, eh?"
(as Zoran) "Can you make more of those?"
LIAM: I don't, but there's more room in it,
if you'd like to have us carry anything for you.
MATT: (as Lucien) "Now, why shouldn't I just take this
"right now from you?"
LAURA: Because you like us.
TALIESIN: Would be a poor sign of trust.
LIAM: If you hold onto it,
you won't get to stay in my tower tonight.
TRAVIS: It is so warm in there.
LAURA: And there's lots of good food.
MATT: "As we said,
"when we arrive, we get this.
"We made a deal."
TRAVIS: We did.
SAM: The whole time,
I was just watching to see if there was any sleight
of hand thing that went on.
MATT: Yeah, go ahead, make a perception check.
SAM: Okay. Yeah, that's a one.
(laughter)
MARISHA: No. That was cool.
LIAM: It still could be. She is a halfling.
I'll just point out.
SAM: Oh yeah, yeah.
TRAVIS: I'll look at the amber.
Do I see a little-- does it look like the--?
MATT: Make a perception check.
TRAVIS: Oh boy, let me fail that as well. 14.
MATT: 14. No, it looks like it's the same as it
was given over.
MARISHA: Can I do an insight check
on that little test he just did?
MATT: Sure, go for it. What are you looking for?
MARISHA: Would he have actually just taken it from us?
MATT: Go for it.
MARISHA: Or is he just-- yeah, that's bad.
Not a one, but it's bad.
LIAM: But you're also a halfling.
MARISHA: But I'm also a halfling. 14.
MATT: Fourteen? That's not too bad.
He wasn't trying to hide much.
I'd say the best that you can make out was, it was not hard
to see that there was a look of relief
on his face when he received it.
That's as much as you'd be able to gather with a 14.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: There was a noticeable, like, (relieved sigh).
MARISHA: "Oh, they aren't totally
bullshitting me. Ah." Okay.
TRAVIS: It's not A1, we are.
MATT: So.
TRAVIS: If we didn't it would just be--
MARISHA: Keymaster.
TRAVIS: -- a little inconvenient.
MARISHA: Gatekeeper, yeah.
LAURA: Are we going straight to, you know,
the big site now?
MATT: "Here's hoping so. One more day of travel.
"Gather your things."
TRAVIS: Let's be off.
SAM: Yeah.
MATT: All right.
Who wants to roll the dice for the final length
of the journey to see what happens?
SAM: My turn.
MARISHA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Your turn.
SAM: Is it a d--?
MATT: d20.
SAM: 10, right in the middle.
MATT: (laughs)
SAM: Oh no.
TALIESIN: Oh no.
MATT: As you begin to trek off,
the gray sky gets thicker--
TALIESIN: Yes!
MATT: -- and thicker as the ice fog rolls in once more.
LIAM and TALIESIN: (laugh)
TRAVIS: I blame the beard.
MATT: I need everybody to make--
SAM: Sea-farin' weather.
(laughter)
MATT: -- a group survival check,
as this recurring weather pattern
is one of the worst
to encounter out here.
LIAM: Got another cold front coming in from the west.
LAURA: Survival.
MARISHA: Yikes.
SAM: I rolled a one.
MARISHA: Not rolling great.
TALIESIN: Not great.
MATT: They're not rolling great either.
SAM: I got a one, yeah.
TALIESIN: Got a one.
MATT: Three, two, five, six.
LAURA: Oh.
LIAM: Wow.
LAURA: Nine.
TRAVIS: Eight.
LIAM: Sixteen.
SAM: One.
ASHLEY: One.
MATT: Yeah, no.
Don't even care.
LAURA: Oh, mega fail.
TRAVIS: What'd you get? You didn't say it.
MARISHA: 12.
LIAM: I'm MacGyver in the group.
ASHLEY: Wait, did you got a one, too?
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm.
MARISHA: You got a one, too?
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MARISHA: Yeah, I rolled a 12.
TALIESIN: Putting that die away.
MATT: That was--
ASHLEY: That was bad.
MATT: -- by far and large the worst group check
we've had in a while.
LIAM: Oh, that's a real bad storm, that one.
MATT: Yeah.
LIAM: Yeah.
MATT: That's going to slow you down.
So it's no longer a one-day journey.
TALIESIN: Yeah!
TRAVIS: (laughs)
LIAM: ♪ A three-hour tour ♪
(laughter)
MATT: Remember the last time you guys had a frustrating bit
of being lost amongst this ice fog?
LAURA: It was with them, because they lost us.
MATT: Yeah, and as you're getting
through halfway through the day
you can hear Lucien's like, "Son of a--
"Well...
"This way."
LAURA: Oh no.
MARISHA: Last time this happened
we should've just hunkered down and waited it out.
MATT: "You prefer to do that?"
MARISHA: Unless you're confident,
more confident than you were the first time, dude.
Because we were really tired after that, got nowhere.
TALIESIN: No, he's going to say that we move.
Patience is not one of his strong suits.
MATT: "I think we can do this."
(laughter)
MATT: "I feel it. This way."
SAM: All right.
MARISHA: Cool.
SAM: Let's go.
MATT: Trekking through the freezing ice fog, shaking.
You all eventually get to a certain point
where you come upon familiar tracks at the end of the day.
And Lucien goes, "Shoot."
SAM: Oh, they're ours.
LAURA: Wow, how did these tracks stay here?
It's been snowing so much.
ASHLEY: Wait, whose tracks are these?
MATT: It's turned into an ice fog at this point.
The snow has diminished.
At which point everyone's going (shivering).
It's starting to get a little dark. Lucien goes, "I--
"I hate this place."
TALIESIN: A humble person would say
that there was probably a lesson here, although the like--
MATT: "We camp up for the night."
MARISHA: Hmm.
LAURA: Do you want a tower?
MATT: "If you don't mind."
LAURA: (gasps)
LIAM: This is why we are friends.
MATT: "Good."
(as Lucien) (sighs) "All right, fine."
MARISHA: The entire time Caleb sets it up,
I just stare at Lucien.
MATT: He doesn't make eye contact with you.
You do see the red eye on the neck--
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: -- shift to make eye contact with you, though.
MARISHA: I just slow Jack Nicholson nod at the eye.
(laughter)
MATT: And so he looks at you expectantly, like--
LIAM: Ja, ja.
The wands jams down into the snow.
I arrange all the pieces necessary, the little wooden cat.
And then (whooshing) and we see stained glass again.
MATT: All right.
Quickly, you watch as the Tomb Takers one by one
enter, except for Lucien who is waiting
for the rest of you to enter
so he can follow and bookend the journey inward.
You all enter to a more comfortable space within
Widogast's Nein-Sided Tower.
SAM: So much nicer.
LAURA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: I prefer this so much. Up!
(laughter)
SAM: Will we still suffer a point of exhaustion?
MATT: You will tomorrow.
LAURA: Ugh.
MARISHA: The worst.
LAURA: I'm going to take a bath tonight.
Just to make sure--
LIAM: The beds are so comfy, though.
Like, way more comfy than normal, so.
MATT: You're going to be real sore in the morning.
LIAM: Okay.
MATT: It's a combination
of sore muscles, a combination of near hypothermia.
While many things came together to make you comfortable
for the night.
But you can already tell the damage has been done
and the morning's going to be a reckoning.
SAM: Is tomorrow the day that we get there?
TRAVIS: Not anymore.
MATT: (chuckles)
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: Got one more day of travel.
MARISHA: We lost a day.
SAM: And then we're there.
Because I do have-- I have a thing.
Not saying this in front of Lucien.
I have two doses of something
that will help two of us
not be exhausted tomorrow.
If that's something that we are interested in.
TRAVIS: Hmm.
MARISHA: Doses?
SAM: It's a leaf that Caduceus can help brew into a tea
that we can drink.
It's an olisuba leaf,
which helps you recover from exhaustion.
But I only have two leaves.
TRAVIS: I wouldn't mind giving it to the wizard.
LAURA: Oh yeah.
TRAVIS: Anyone else?
SAM: Exhaustion affects skill checks, right?
LAURA: Yeah.
SAM: So who does that a lot?
Perception checks, investigation checks?
LAURA: You.
LIAM: If we are going
into any ruins, then it would make sense for me.
But if not, then not, Nott.
LAURA: But you might be looking at the book again.
SAM: Yeah.
ASHLEY: What about you two?
You two?
SAM: Us two?
LIAM: Want to share some tea?
Little tea and tea?
SAM: If you guys are okay with that.
TALIESIN: I'll get the kettle.
SAM: Thank you.
LAURA: Where's Lucien?
MATT: He now steps into the door behind
and closes it.
All of them are looking around.
Lucien is the first to pipe up.
"Not going to lie, this is a very welcome change of pace.
"My thanks."
LIAM: If you're a good boy,
we can do this every night.
MATT: "I like it when you're condescending.
"It's attractive."
TALIESIN: He's always condescending.
SAM: He's always attractive.
MATT: "That's dangerous."
LAURA: (laughs)
TRAVIS: Behold me into the tower of Widogast!
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Fear me! You can do, too, you just say, "up."
MATT: Lucien just goes, "Up. (laughs)
"Full of surprises. Well?"
And the rest of the Tomb Takers go, "Up!" "Up!" "Up!"
And they all start drifting up.
And they start just rushing off and exploring.
LIAM: Okay, if any of them try to go outside
of the central invisible column
that's 10 feet wide in the center,
they're going to start to float or fall back down.
So it's just the center invisible spoke.
MATT: Okay and they do, they sort of--
It's a fizzy lifting drink moment.
They're all just like "What's going on?" there.
For as intimidating as they've been
since you've met them, to certain degrees,
this is the most adorable they've been.
If I could put it that way.
TALIESIN: Wait 'til they find out about the food.
MATT: But nevertheless, the evening in the tower is yours.
Lucien does ask, "Is there a particular chambers
"for us to be staying?"
LIAM: Ja, I have one set of
chambers for you and your friends.
MATT: "All right. Where?"
LIAM: Ah, follow me.
I don't say up and I float up through the center.
Come along, and take us up to five
and rap on the door
with no decoration on the outside of it.
This is for you. And I open the door,
and inside the sitting room
is all the walls are covered in stained glass windows
that you cannot see through them.
But you do see those small little globules
floating just behind in one direction slowly.
And the windows show scenes from Mollymauk's
Fletchling and Moondrop circus, just tableaus
of the different performers and Mollymauk himself.
And there is one window that shows a scene
with the devil toad and the Mighty Nein in the circus
erupting, beautifully wrought.
And the mirror--
not mirror, the glass window
above the fireplace is Caleb's imagination of the city
that he's seen in their vision.
Move us through to the next quarters.
And there are bunk beds and--
MATT: As you pass the stained glass relief of the city,
Lucien glances over it for a moment, pauses,
and just says absentmindedly to you almost,
"You've seen more than you let on.
"Huh."
Just continues with you.
LIAM: Dare to dream.
You can all sleep in here.
And there are bunk beds enough for all
of Lucien's Tomb Takers, but not Lucien.
And I push through to the final room
and there is a similar bed
and bathtub, all the same amenities
but the drapery is Mollymauk's ornate coat.
MATT: As they all glance around
and make in the space, and nod.
Pretty high passive insight.
Lucien--
other than his normally confident self,
seems to have a faint touch of apprehension.
But then quickly they all turn.
Tyffial goes, "Is there a meal included as well?"
LIAM: Ja, so I would say, make yourself comfortable
in about an hour, exit your chambers and go higher
up until you reach the room with all of the cats in it.
MATT: "Very well."
They all look at each other and Cree goes,
"We'll be down shortly."
And they all huddle up a bit as you make your way
to wherever you wish to.
LIAM: Hmm.
LAURA: Can I ask a question?
MATT: Yes, you may.
SAM: (pigeon cooing)
LAURA: I don't remember where Dagen went.
SAM: He's been following us.
LAURA: Is he just following us?
SAM: Yeah, yeah.
TRAVIS: In the ice fog.
LAURA: So now he's, like, fucking--
SAM: He's like a tracker guy!
He knows what-- he was probably, all day today
he was like, "Go that way, you idiots."
MATT: You certainly hope so.
LIAM: He's our ringer.
LAURA: I'm going to send him a message.
MARISHA: Yeah, and you know, tell him to just meet us
at Aeor. Mm-hmm?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MARISHA: Meet us there.
LIAM: Go to Aeor, go to Aeor.
MARISHA: I know, I know, I thought about him.
TRAVIS: Like did he cross the
lava stuff when we did it and--?
LAURA: Yeah, all of those things.
SAM: He's a badass.
TRAVIS: Remember it was collapsing behind us, though?
And falling to shit just as we were crossing and--
SAM: He's fine.
TRAVIS: Okay, yep.
SAM: He can fly.
TRAVIS: Okay.
MARISHA: He's better without us.
ASHLEY: Yeah.
MARISHA: (laughs)
MATT: All right.
LAURA: I'm going to send a message to Dagen
when I'm, you know, alone.
And say: Hey, just making sure everything's okay back there.
Did you follow us?
We're in the tower tonight.
Dang this is crazy stuff, man.
MARISHA: (laughs)
LAURA: To Aeor!
(laughter)
TRAVIS: At the--!
At the end!
Fuck me!
Oh shit!
SAM and MARISHA: To Aeor!
MATT: I love you, Laura.
MARISHA: It's the new, "To Zadash."
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Ridiculous.
MATT: A moment passes that makes you slightly nervous.
And then, "All right, best I can tell you all
just disappeared into that weird doorway again."
(laughter)
MATT: "I'm not too far off.
"Maybe no more lava."
LAURA: Oh, okay.
MATT: That's all the response you get,
but he's worth his money and gold.
For all the shit that's gone down, he's the only--
he's probably, yeah, going through the fog,
the ice fog, going like,
"Where the fuck are they going?"
(laughter)
MATT: But yeah.
LAURA: Okay.
TRAVIS: I'll take 30 minutes to attune
to whatever this armor is.
And what is it called again?
MATT: It's studded leather, plus two.
TRAVIS: Studded leather, plus two.
MARISHA: I'm going to head to the kitchen or wherever
and find the rest of the Mighty Nein.
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA: Wherever people seem to be convening.
SAM: We're making our tea, probably.
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm.
MARISHA: Okay.
TALIESIN: Honey? Honey? Honey?
SAM: Sure, sweetie.
TALIESIN: All right.
LIAM: Actually, why don't I take us up to our laboratory?
SAM: Sure.
LIAM: And make the tea there
with the--
SAM: In a beaker?
LIAM: Ja.
SAM: Cool.
SAM: (laughs)
MARISHA: Can I follow?
LIAM: Yeah, come along, yeah.
Have I brought you guys up there yet?
MARISHA: No, you haven't.
ASHLEY: We haven't seen the laboratory.
LAURA: I didn't know there was a laboratory.
SAM: You know, we've also never seen what's up
on eight and nine, I think, right?
Have we?
ASHLEY: Do you want to give us a full--?
SAM: Might be the last night we are alive and stuff.
Maybe we should see the attic?
MARISHA: Why you keep looking at me?
LAURA: You have more stained glass up there?
SAM: Fuck dolls?
LAURA: Oh, no.
MARISHA: You can either show us or I was maybe thinking
about just planning a B&E for fun.
LIAM: That would be interesting to see.
MARISHA: Yeah.
SAM: Or if it's too sensitive, we'll just
have out tea in the lab?
LIAM: No, I'll show you. Let's have the tea,
and then I'll show you.
LAURA: Do we have stuff other than the good tea?
Do we have normal tea?
TALIESIN: Oh yeah, always.
LAURA: Okay.
TALIESIN: Yeah, we're in the tower we got everything.
MATT: So you brew multiple teas.
Is there anything you'd wish to go over during this time?
Or do you wish to go to rest?
MARISHA: I was thinking about this Cobalt Reserve dilemma.
SAM: Oh boy, I see geometric shapes all over your head.
Math equations.
MARISHA: It's going to be really tough to get out of here
and get back to the Reserve, to talk to Yudala Fon.
The only idea that I have right now would be to try
and maybe reach out to Dairon and see where they are.
Maybe Dairon can be our liaison for us.
Talk to Yudala Fon, get information.
And then I don't know what, I don't know
if we could try and figure out a way to get Dairon to us.
I don't know.
SAM: Essek could go get her, maybe?
LAURA: But teleporting,
that means Essek would have to teleport in.
SAM: Yeah.
LAURA: Nobody can get here quickly.
MARISHA: If that's the case
then he might as well take me and we can come back.
SAM: Yeah, might not be worth it.
MARISHA: (exhales) I'm kind of wondering--
LIAM: Going in and out is dangerous.
TALIESIN: Wait a minute.
Maybe, maybe, maybe, maybe.
SAM: Is there a spell that can send an item?
We could teleport an item, like,
they could write it all down
and then (whoosh) foof it to us.
LIAM: Same spell, but sure, still risky.
SAM: If we lose an item,
then it's fine, it's not a life.
LIAM: Depends on the item.
MARISHA: I mean, that would have to be the way to go, right?
Try to figure out-- because yeah, I don't know
if at this point the Cobalt Reserve has any more information
than we do. It's a gamble
SAM: And their information might be there is no information
because someone burned it all and that's all we find out.
MARISHA: Well, the way it seems like Yudala was acting
it seems like they found something
of some pretty significant importance.
They didn't want to convey it over a message spell.
LAURA: Maybe it was just too long.
Maybe they don't trust me.
LIAM: If you did want to try to get some help here
I could send a stone, anything from where we are
through to one of the circles.
And that would lessen the risk, not remove it.
MARISHA: Like communicator stones?
LIAM: No, no.
As long as I have an object from this location,
as long as they have it, that ordinarily ensures
that you will reach your destination safely.
You know, I don't know what the chances of harm are
because of the nature of this place.
But if we were to send something as simple as a rock through
from our location to them and they use that to return here,
it's at least increasing their chances of success,
I believe.
LAURA: What were you going to say?
MATT: I was going to to say
you gathered from the message that reached you
from Yudala Fon that they were more--
they were aware of the limitations of the spell,
and it would be ridiculous to try and convey any
of the information they've found in a short number of words.
It didn't seem like it was
with extreme urgency
and more like, "We have some information,
"but this is not the way to converse."
LAURA: Hmm.
MARISHA: Maybe we just reach back out to Yudala
and ask them if there's anything that they can do
to send a message that, I think,
like you were saying, like a written something
over a longer period, I don't know.
LAURA: How would we get it?
MARISHA: I don't know.
(deep sighs)
LIAM: Maybe we're on our own here.
SAM: Yeah, probably.
Well, this tea is very nice.
Should we turn in?
LAURA: I think we were going to go eat food.
MARISHA: Dinner.
LAURA: With them.
SAM: Sure.
MARISHA: Let's go eat.
LIAM: Okay.
MARISHA: Unless you wanted to give us,
like, a more extensive tour.
SAM: If that's what you wanted to do.
LIAM: Fort, doch nicht vergessen.
And the iris in the central hallway opens
to the eighth floor and Caleb floats up.
LAURA: Augusten?
SAM: Fort michanachren mich hagen mach.
And I started levitating up as well.
(laughter)
No. Up?
LAURA: Did it work? Up!
LIAM: Yeah.
You don't have to say up.
TRAVIS: Don't we?
LIAM: You just have to-- you have to.
TRAVIS: Up!
(laughter)
LIAM: Caleb makes a mental note that the effect
of the central chamber does not work for Fjord
unless he says "Up" out loud.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: It'll never be a problem.
LIAM: Everyone else is fine.
(laughter)
Once you guys float up with me,
there is a nine-sided inner chamber
at the heart of the tower
and there are nine doors numbered.
Pick three.
LAURA: How much do you think it must be weirding Lucien out
right now that it's a Nein-Sided Tower and everything's
like nine, nine, nine, nine, nine in here.
LIAM: A whole lot.
SAM: Pick three?
LIAM: Pick three.
TRAVIS: Three doors?
SAM: I'm will pick door four.
MARISHA: I'll pick door nine.
LAURA: Ooh.
TRAVIS: One.
SAM: Okay.
One, four, nine.
LIAM: In that order?
SAM: They would be four, one, nine.
Right? Yeah.
LIAM: Okay.
All right, So Caleb walks to--
LAURA: Four, nine, one.
SAM: Four, nine, one.
LIAM: Four, nine, one.
To the door with a four on it and opens it.
As a side note, this is the room that he came to last.
Opens it, and you guys look in and see
a very Zemnian-style bed chamber, small,
the equivalent of a school dorm.
And there is a bed with all the sheets
totally messed and twisted and akimbo.
And books sitting on a wooden desk opened up.
It's a student's room.
This is one of the bed chambers
at the Soltryce Academy.
MARISHA: Was this yours?
SAM: Like yours?
LIAM: Uh, no.
SAM: Oh.
MARISHA: Hers?
LIAM: Yes, it was.
MARISHA: Spend a lot of time in this room?
SAM: Oh my god.
LAURA: Did you do that to the sheets?
(laughter)
MARISHA: It's a great room, it's great.
TALIESIN: Is there a view?
LIAM: The windows are very frosted over,
so you can't really see through them too well.
MARISHA: I look down at one of the open books. What is it?
LIAM: It's a book on illusions.
MARISHA: Is this active reading,
or is this just set dressing?
LIAM: No. I flip through it,
and there are the rudimentary beginnings
of the illusion school of the arcane
and the precepts that one must study and learn,
for a year before getting to the very novice levels
of being able to weave said illusions.
MARISHA: But you don't need this.
LIAM: No.
SAM: But he did at the time.
MARISHA: So it's set dressing.
LIAM: It's a memory.
MARISHA: A good one?
LIAM: Yeah.
MARISHA: Are all of these doors memories?
LIAM: What do you think, Beauregard?
MARISHA: I think I'm pretty smart.
LIAM: Let's look at the next room.
Was it number nine, you said, ja?
MARISHA: Yeah.
ASHLEY: One? What was it? Oh yeah, nine.
LIAM: Four, nine, one.
I push open nine and as everyone shuffles in
you instantly recognize the Nestled Nook Inn.
MARISHA: Aw!
SAM: That's where we met!
LIAM: It's the tavern room downstairs, yeah.
MARISHA: Aw!
TALIESIN: Who's here?
MARISHA: Caleb!
LIAM: Just us.
TALIESIN: Anything around? Any paper, any?
LIAM: I mean, there are flagons
and half-eaten plates of food and just look--
LAURA: Is it moldy or does it seem like
it's a moment in time
it's not in its--
LIAM: Everything is fresh.
LAURA: Ah.
LIAM: Made just
37 minutes ago.
LAURA: Wow.
TALIESIN: Hmm.
LIAM: This is where we met, Caduceus.
TALIESIN: Ah.
This is nice.
LIAM: It is.
LAURA: It would've been better if you were there, too.
TALIESIN: Aw!
SAM: I mean, it was nice that we met Molly as well.
LAURA: Sure. Why wouldn't Molly
be able to be there if Caduceus was?
TALIESIN: Yeah.
SAM: Well, I mean.
You're right.
TALIESIN: Thank you.
SAM: I would've--
They're two separate people, of course.
(laughter)
LIAM: Okay, it's going to be dinner soon.
So you wanted to see room number one?
(door creaking)
TALIESIN: Ah.
LAURA: What is it?
TALIESIN: His home, isn't it.
LIAM: He just stands there for a while.
MARISHA: And is it your home, your childhood home?
LIAM: He doesn't say anything, but walks in.
And if you follow, you will see a very, very humble,
small, cottage-style home with a hearth, meager.
Poor wooden furniture and
a shelf with a handful of ragged books on it.
And a set of wooden stairs leading up to a second floor.
And I just go and I sit down at the chair
at the family table.
LAURA: I go sit down at the table with him.
This is a nice house, Caleb.
Do you come up here every time you make the tower?
LIAM: I have never been in this room.
I mean, I've been in this room, but
I've never been in this room.
MARISHA: How close is it?
This is a memory more or less, yeah?
LIAM: This is it.
LAURA: Why, um.
Why did you put all this at the top of your tower?
LIAM: The same reason that the tavern is up here.
Wherever I go
they're with me.
LAURA: They are?
LIAM: Yeah.
TRAVIS: So funny; they say you can never go home,
but you've created an ingenious way to do just that.
MARISHA: But this is your first time being in this room.
LAURA: This would still be here.
They would still be here if you didn't make the rooms.
You know that, though, right?
LIAM: It's just my way--
It's just my way.
TRAVIS: Was your room upstairs?
LIAM: Mm-hmm. Just the one.
TRAVIS: Would you mind if I--?
LIAM: Sure.
Caleb walks over and looks at the steps
and places his hand on the rail,
and skips to the second step
and it goes (creaking). Smiles a little bit
and then continues up.
And it leads to barely more than a loft space.
There is a single window and there is a simple bed.
There was two other doors down below, but up here is just
this little loft and there is a small bed.
Big enough for a teenager, maybe.
And a small little circle of rags,
a perfunctory bed on the floor next to the bed.
TRAVIS: All to yourself?
LIAM: (exhales) Almost.
(foomph)
MARISHA: Frumpkin?
LIAM: I've thought about it so much.
(quietly) I've thought about it so much.
I don't even know if it's a good idea to have this.
It probably isn't. But it's just my way.
I'm just not allowed to forget it.
TALIESIN: I don't think you ever do.
I don't think this room would change that.
And...
not to speak to how smart you are,
but I don't think you've figured out
that you're not supposed to forget, but you're--
I don't know, not doing it wrong.
You're not using it the right way, I don't think.
LAURA: It feels less like a memory
and more like a punishment for yourself, Caleb.
TALIESIN: And I'm not--
LIAM: If it exists here, it exists.
It exists somewhere.
TALIESIN: Even without here, it would exist somewhere.
I know that sounds--
This is a beautiful place.
And I hope you know that,
without the cloud that it brings.
This is beautiful.
TALIESIN: But--
LIAM: It is, it is.
I have those memories.
I have them.
I've struggled with it for a very long time,
my feelings about these things.
There are good memories,
but I--
TALIESIN: It only takes one bad one.
LIAM: I can't help wanting more.
SAM: Do you still wish to go back and undo it?
LIAM: Of course.
I regret it, I regret-- of course.
TALIESIN: You think Lucien has a room like this?
Do you think that's what's happening?
I don't know, maybe.
LIAM: Well, I understand that you all
care for me very much.
And I am very grateful for it.
There is a part of me that will not--
MARISHA: Will not...?
LIAM: (inhales) So the tour is almost over.
You wanted to see the ninth floor as well? Come along.
SAM: Only if it's all right with you.
LIAM: Ja, ja, it's beautiful.
SAM: Oh. Okay.
LIAM: I lead them back up to the central chamber
and the iris is open.
MARISHA: After Caleb walks out and after he leaves,
I just turn and look at Fjord, and then follow.
TALIESIN: I'd like to be the last.
MATT: Okay.
TALIESIN: Just want to leave
a very, very small,
very, very small bit of tea on the table
before closing the door.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: I misspoke. Not locked, but is closed.
So once we're all together in the center chamber
I look up at the iris and say: Auf. It goes (whoosh).
And as soon as that happens
you see-- almost like you're looking into a sea of stars,
and we start to float up inside.
And anyone who dove into the beacon
will recognize the experience you feel in this room,
which is all illusion,
but looking around the room,
you see layer upon layer upon layer of vision.
And you see your own self.
Many of you walking along arcs
and paths and breaking into multiple versions of you.
SAM: Wow.
LIAM: And it is--
you can see the floor and you see a hole
in this void that we're in, and we're hovering,
but when you look out to the sides and up,
it just goes forever and ever and ever.
Good room to think.
SAM: Yeah.
MARISHA: This is incredible.
TALIESIN: Wow.
LAURA: (whispering) You guys should--
SAM: What?
MARISHA: It's fascinating.
ASHLEY: Wow.
MARISHA: The conflicting principles
between those two floors.
These two floors.
One dedicated to preserving the past
exactly how you want it to stay,
and then the other dedicated to--
LIAM: Endless possibility.
MARISHA: -- endless possibility.
LIAM: They don't have to be exclusive.
MARISHA: No.
TALIESIN: If it's all right, I'm going to go that way.
LIAM: Never go that way, never.
MARISHA: (laughs)
TALIESIN: Too late.
I'm going to see if I can walk a little bit
and how far before I hit a wall.
MATT: Not too far, I imagine. (laughs)
It's like that portion of the elevator
when you have the mirror on both sides
and that's the infinite stuff and you're like,
it's really cool and then (bonk).
TALIESIN: Bump, bump, bump. Ow.
TRAVIS: The VR cord catches?
LIAM: It's about the same distance from the entrance
to the dining room, to the opposite wall.
TALIESIN: Just going to unsmudge.
(laughter)
LAURA: Unsmudge the void.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Sorry, galaxy.
TALIESIN: Breathed on it.
SAM: (squeaking)
TRAVIS: Millions of voices cry out. Ah!
TALIESIN: Spit polish the universe.
LIAM: So you are all welcome up here any time you want.
I'm sure you remember the words to access this chamber.
SAM: Yes, yeah.
LIAM: I'll only share it one time.
SAM: Sure.
But we all have Keen Mind, so we'll be okay.
ASHLEY: What did you say it was again?
SAM: Auf Wiedersehen Fahrvergnügen.
ASHLEY: Auf Wiedersehen Fahrvergnügen?
SAM: Yeah.
ASHLEY: Yeah.
MARISHA: It's very impressive.
ASHLEY: Amazing.
MARISHA: It's a lot of things.
And then it is definitely impressive being one of them.
SAM: I'm assuming one of those doors was the moment we met,
because it's such a great memory, but you don't need
to prove it to me by showing it to me.
I'm just going to assume that it was.
MARISHA: I bet doors five and six are super fucked up.
SAM: Oh boy.
LIAM: Maybe another day.
MARISHA: You all have always known me to be blunt.
ASHLEY: I can't wait to see what's
behind the other doors one day.
LIAM: (sighs) Dinner.
MATT: (laughs)
MARISHA: As they're leaving I stop Caleb
after everyone else has left.
MATT: He's leading the path.
MARISHA: Well.
LIAM: You'd have to dive after me.
I'm so fast.
LAURA: Just dive after him.
MARISHA: Nevermind, it's gone.
I'm not diving after you for this shit.
(laughter)
MATT: That's friendship.
SAM: I'm going to just see if there's a 10th floor.
(laughter)
SAM: Up. Up!
MATT: (whooshes)
LIAM: (bump)
SAM: Ow! All right.
TRAVIS: You got to speak Zemnian.
SAM: Oh.
LAURA: Get your smudge off the top of the void!
SAM: Okay.
MATT: You bumped into the ceiling,
which now has to be washed!
As you all drift back down to dinner,
which you can see, already awaiting.
there is, at the dining room space, the Tomb Takers who are
in the process of taking in the coterie of cats
that seem to be also uncertain
of them in this odd tense mutual standoff.
And as you all step in to break the tension
Lucien glances over. "Perfect timing.
"I think food's in order."
As you all begin to take your places to feast
for the evening, we're going to take a break.
ALL: Oh!
MARISHA: Oh, right.
MATT: That's right.
SAM: Dinner break?
MARISHA: Ah.
MATT: Yeah.
MARISHA: Where am I?
(laughter)
TRAVIS: That was a long first half, wasn't it?
MATT: Yeah, went longer than expected, my apologies.
But it was palpable.
So we'll be back here in a few minutes to pick up
for this very interesting evening.
Stay tuned. We'll see you in a little bit.
Wow.
Wow!
You got it in!
Mad respect.
Thank you.
No, Max messaged the rest of us,
and he was like, she went full Talasin.
(laughs)
She went hard low.
Yeah.
That's such a compliment!
Look, I came with my A game.
It was early morning.
I had a cup of coffee.
I was awake.
I had my CEO brain clickin'.
(laughs)
And then I just got kicked in the (beep) teeth.
No, but the reason why we film separate cameras
is because it's better for the video.
It's better for the audio.
It's better...yeah.
And we have specific overlays made.
Yeah, everyone wants their own window.
Yeah, it just looks better,
better audio quality in these weird times.
What we're not telling folks is that
my screen requires
so much effects
and airbrushing and
correction to like a lot of
Yeah.
my spray tans and...
Some of the different stuff, so that--
There's a blackout in Burbank
every time we export Talks Machina.
That's true. That's true.
(laughs)
Yeah, I actually have four or five backup cameras
above this one in case--
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Couple of generators under the desk.
I'm ready to go.
It's been good, though.
We've gotten a lot of work for like all the
Hollywood render farms that aren't working now,
thanks to the lockdown, so--
Yes.
Happy to help out the industry.
This is the only show
on Twitch that records in After Effects.
(laughs)
Laura: Hey, critters, Laura Bailey here.
Let's see what's up in the Critical Role shop.
Oh my gosh, it's so amazing.
Hey, look at these!
They go on your face!
Can you put donuts in this?
I don't know.
Only one way to find out.
I mean, the Traveler always says
impulse purchases are a good decision.
This is a lot of stuff, you guys.
We have so many cool things right now.
So click on over to the Critical Role shop.
(laughs) Don't worry.
There's a few more minutes in the break.
You still got time.
Taliesin: Like a symphony playing to an empty theater,
Critical Role dines alone without its audience.
Yes.
That validating and most enthusiastic congregation
on the other side of
the fourth wall.
And what is this
fourth wall
separating the viewer from the creator?
A portal to an often-sought point of connection?
Or
the Twitch Subscription Zone?
On the rare occasion that you miss the live bacchanal
boasted by the ragtag group of thespians on Thursday night,
you may always view this show on demand
in the shadowland known as the Twitch Subscription Zone.
Picture if you will
the necessary pieces to complete a jigsaw puzzle,
but it's up to you to choose how it will be solved.
You could, of course, subscribe with your debt rectangle,
but many more divergent paths lie before you.
Perhaps you found yourself in possession
of an Amazon Prime account.
You would then wake up to discover
a free Twitch subscription each month
for a channel of your choosing.
But this artifact demands renewal, for you must
resubscribe each month to quench its unyielding thirst.
One need not walk alone.
Those who have already found their way
can illuminate the path for others
via the Gift a Sub button on Twitch.
Critical Role is humbled by your subscription
and wishes to thank you from behind the thin veil of this
fourth wall.
We hope you enjoy our content as much as we enjoy making it.
And so ends another meandering digression,
a complicated parody-promo down an indistinct highway,
to the region we call
the Twitch Subscription Zone.
You will subscribe.
Twitch Prime subscribe.
Gift subscribe.
Subscribe!
MATT: And welcome back.
So last we left off,
you all had sat down for your dinner of the evening
in Widogast's Nein-Sided Tower with the Tomb Takers.
Is there anything specific
you want to serve for dinner, Caleb?
LIAM: Well, there's always a very healthy pastry
and baking array.
That's just a permanent fixture,
but I think we will do...
elk.
ASHLEY: Mm.
SAM: Sure.
LIAM: Yeah, the main dish is elk.
TRAVIS: Dude, elk is great.
LIAM: And lots of-- yeah--
and vegetables.
It's very healthy.
TALIESIN: Thank you.
LIAM: Baking aside.
SAM: Great.
MATT: All right.
MARISHA: Sounds delicious.
LAURA: Let's do some, like, zucchini muffins,
so that I can still have vegetables,
in case the vegetables aren't very good.
MATT: Okay, okay.
Just that, you know,
awkward, quiet acknowledgements across the table
as the hungry rugged Tomb Takers
try their best at giving pleasantries.
SAM: As guests, do you lot want to say grace?
MATT: They all look at each other.
Otis goes,
"No."
SAM: It's tradition.
Say a blessing for the food, you know,
based on the being that you worship.
ASHLEY: And the guest always says the grace.
MATT: Looks around the other ones, and Lucien goes,
and Otis goes,
(guttural speech)
The eyes go black for a second, then--
(laughter)
SAM: Amen?
ASHLEY: Was that Otis?
MATT: That was Otis, the halfling.
LAURA: Do we know what language that was?
SAM: What god was that?!
MATT: You don't know.
SAM: Holt shit!
TALIESIN: I speak Sylvan, Giant, Elvish, and Common.
MATT: Giant-- then no, you do not.
TALIESIN: Damn.
ASHLEY: Abyssal and Celestial?
MATT: Nope.
LAURA: I speak Infernal.
LIAM: Celestial?
MATT: Nope.
SAM: Goblin?
MARISHA: Deep Speech?
MATT: Deep Speech.
(laughter)
MARISHA: What the fuck did he say?
LIAM: And you understand everything now.
This is-- right?
MARISHA: That's true, and I can understand spoken tongues.
MATT: Yeah, yeah, you can.
MARISHA: Yeah, I need to fucking remember that.
MATT: So you make out that the gist of this was,
"Oh, great distant voice,
come upon this meal
and let us destroy and devour of its sustenance."
(laughter)
SAM: Wow!
MARISHA: You just see Beau just zone out
and then slowly eat.
Yeah.
MATT: Okay.
They all go into their feasting
and the quiet persists until--
LIAM: Oh, I call one cat over.
Liesel, could you do me a favor
and go to the back and get just one plate
of zucchini muffins
and also some banana nut bread ones as well.
ASHLEY: (whispers) Also some of those little bugs.
LIAM: Yeah, we have-- those are permanent now as well,
so more bugs for the lady.
ASHLEY: Oh nevermind, Liesel.
We have enough.
MATT: (dismissive cat sound)
LAURA: Ooh, ooh, have you tried yogurt covered bugs?
ASHLEY: No.
LAURA: You should, let's try those.
ASHLEY: Liesel.
MATT: (inquisitive meow)
ASHLEY: Can we get, like, a little thing of yogurt?
LAURA: No, no, no, no, no,
not like yogurt dipped bugs,
like yogurt covered bugs.
Like yogurt covered raisins.
LIAM: Like hardened.
ASHLEY: Oh, like a hard yogurt?
Okay, so take some of the bugs,
dip them in, and then put them in the fridge,
the cold box.
LAURA: You know how to do it.
Yogurt covered bugs.
ASHLEY: And then they'll harden
and then it'll be like a little (eating sounds).
SAM: Fjord, would you like to order anything specific?
MATT: The cat's head slowly turns towards Caleb
and just looks at him for a second,
looks back and goes (petulant meow).
(laughter)
ASHLEY: Liesel's a bitch!
LIAM: Technically, yes.
ASHLEY: I like her.
LAURA: What's your favorite kind of food, Lucien?
MATT: "Well, to be honest, whatever's warm
"and I didn't have to pay for."
LAURA: No, you have to have, like, a favorite.
That's a boring answer.
What's your favorite food?
MARISHA: I agree with that.
MATT: "Things with, I don't know, spiced cream.
"I grew up eating bland food.
"Anything that's interesting."
LIAM: Where did you grow up?
Where did all of you grow up?
What were your lives before this?
MATT: You see them all look uncomfortable
and be like (uncertain exhale).
LIAM: Super culty.
MATT: (as Lucien) "I don't know if--
"don't know if this is about sharing
"personal histories per se.
"I grew up in Shadycreek Run."
LIAM: All right.
MATT: "That's about as much as I'd like to talk about."
TALIESIN: Insight.
MATT: Make an insight check.
TALIESIN: Ooh, 22.
MATT: Seems pretty straight forward
and pretty much does not want to talk about it.
SAM: Shadycreek Run, is that near where Mollymauk was--
MARISHA: That's where we fought Lorenzo.
SAM: That's sort of interesting.
That's interesting, isn't it?
TALIESIN: My neck of the woods.
MARISHA: That's where we met Keg.
SAM: Well, that's less interesting to Lucien,
but it's interesting.
It's just interesting.
MATT: Otis going off of Lucien's lead,
seemingly taking that as permission goes,
"I grew up in Trostenwald.
"Joined the Orders out of boredom.
"But now, you know, just curious to see
"where the road leads now, eh?"
LAURA: The Orders, does that sound familiar?
The Orders?
SAM: The Orders. Yeah, the--
LAURA: Oh, oh, that's right.
We talked about that.
SAM: Yeah, that's their little--
LAURA: Yeah.
SAM: -- religion.
MATT: Zoran kind of--
"Menagerie Coast originally, but
"not much for friendship,
"not until these--
"not until these folks joined."
MARISHA: Friends?
Would you call them your friends?
MATT: "Compatriots, I don't do friends."
MARISHA: Okay.
TRAVIS: Menagerie Coast, that's where we're from.
LAURA: We're from the Menagerie Coast!
TRAVIS: Yeah!
MATT: (deadpan) "Yeah."
TRAVIS: Okay.
MATT: There's another awkward pause.
You can see Cree and Tyffial just like
not engaging at all.
The food begins to trickle in
as the cats begin to come inside
with some plates of fresh food
and then the food is an immediate distraction.
They begin to eat and take that as a way to break
the eye contact and awkward pauses.
TALIESIN: So, Lucien, you said
you grew up in Shadycreek Run.
Did you ever make it to the Blooming Grove?
MATT: "I never quite made it up to that far, no."
TALIESIN: Huh.
It's a shame.
I suppose I would have remembered you.
Got a--
got a look about you
and you definitely not quiet about it.
MATT: "I leave an impression."
TALIESIN: Absolutely.
MATT: "But no--"
TALIESIN: That's a shame.
MATT: "I mean, been up into the forest up there quite a bit,
"you know, work takes you in strange places
"but I had no interest in quite making my way to the Grove."
TALIESIN: Do you have family in the Grove?
MATT: "(laughs) Don't really have family."
TALIESIN: Everybody came from somewhere.
MATT: "Oh, those that wish to remember."
TALIESIN: Hmm.
I think those who wish to remember
and on the other end of that
is occasionally an unfortunate truth.
MATT: "You might want to stop prying now and enjoy your meal
"before it gets unpleasant."
TALIESIN: I'm having a nice meal.
ASHLEY: Do you remember--
well, you don't remember anything, but--
(clears throat) from your time as Molly, but
do you remember anything about the circus
or anybody from Shadycreek that was part of the circus?
MATT: "No."
SAM: Who was-- do you--
was there someone?
ASHLEY: Well, yeah.
They all were pretty much
from Shadycreek.
SAM: Was there one
that Mollymauk got along with famously?
ASHLEY: I mean, all of them, me?
Do you remember someone named Gustav Fletchling?
Fletching?
Not Fletchling?
That's something else.
MATT: "Afraid I haven't heard of him."
TALIESIN: I know it's useless but insight check.
MATT: Insight check.
TALIESIN: 14. I don't even know why I bother.
MATT: He's hard to gauge.
ASHLEY: Can I try to do an insight check 'cause--
MATT: Sure.
TRAVIS: Yeah, let's go, Yasha.
LAURA: Do it.
MATT: Let's fucking go!
ASHLEY: 15.
MATT: He's hard to read.
At the most you sense he's--
you get this faintest sense
he's growing more and more frustrated with the questions.
He's covering it with a smile as he eats,
but there's-- he's getting a bit shorter.
TRAVIS: Getting away from the personal stuff,
are you expecting anyone else to be at Aeor?
Any other parties that we might have to,
I don't know, have to work our way around or sneak by?
SAM: Or is it guarded?
MATT: "I'm certain there are
"all sorts of interests wandering those places.
"There's Empire business finding its way there,
"there's Dynasty business,
"there's independent contractors
"that are just looking to scavenge and takeaway,
"there's folks from all over, I'm sure.
"Depending on the day and where you enter from."
TRAVIS: Well, if we can be of use,
I mean, is there a particular tactic
that you wanted to stick to?
More of the subterfuge side
or are you a smash and grab fan?
MATT: "I like to think the tactic will present itself
"when the time is right.
"We're kind of improvisers."
TRAVIS: You'll be glad to hear we are as well.
MATT: "Mm. Good."
MARISHA: You mentioned depending on the way you enter.
So do you know of a back entrance?
MATT: "We have an entrance that we've used before,
"last time we came."
TALIESIN: You've been there before?
MATT: "Right."
TALIESIN: Ah.
MATT: "Once before.
"We're just trying to ensure that
"our way in hasn't been commandeered."
SAM: Is it secret?
Is it a secret way?
MATT: "As far as I know."
SAM: Oh.
MATT: "Seems secret but it's been a while.
"We'll find out."
TRAVIS: You know, I do have this map, actually.
I'll actually take it out,
show Lucien, if you don't mind.
It seems like there are mountains
on the north, east, and southern sides
of where the city would be located,
but there's a stretch of land from the west.
Is there a particular direction
that you plan to enter from?
I mean, perhaps so we could take advantage
of a scouting party or at least, you know,
see which tactic would be to our advantage.
MATT: "We happen to have a viable scout on our side,
"but you have some skilled folk.
"In the northwestern edge,
"that's where we first entered."
TRAVIS: Nice.
LIAM: How long ago?
MATT: "Number of years."
MARISHA: Number of years.
TALIESIN: Oh, yes.
MARISHA: Did you not accomplish what you set out to do
that last trip?
MATT: "That's when we were hired by
"the late Vess DeRogna."
MARISHA: Uh-huh.
TRAVIS: And with the map still out,
I point to the other points, A?, A3.
Did you happen to already visit all these as well?
MATT: "No, not all of them.
"There are a few left unpicked."
TRAVIS: But not necessary for your needs.
MATT: "We have what we need."
TRAVIS: Nice.
Efficient.
MATT: "Is there a dessert, by the way?"
LIAM: That is what we do best here.
LAURA: (laughing) Is there?!
LIAM: Are you in the mood for something?
MATT: "Great.
"I think it's time.
"Could you get your
"little kitties to bring us some fine treats,
"if you don't mind."
LIAM: Casper, Bruno,
bring out the final course and then dessert.
MATT: (trilling meow) And they come out
and bring out the final spread.
MARISHA: I just look over at Yasha
and I go (claps) mockingly.
MATT: And you glance back and Lucien's looking right at you.
MARISHA: 'Sup.
LAURA: (chuckles)
MATT: Begins to take and eat hungrily of the treats.
LIAM: One of the larger cats comes in--
two of the larger cats come in
and one has got a huge brass tray
with all kinds of fruit,
cut fruit on it
and the other one has a huge basin
with a fountain of chocolate
pouring down into it.
It is a fondue.
TRAVIS: Holy shit.
LIAM: Chocolate fondue.
ASHLEY: Oh my gosh.
MARISHA: And they're shaped like stars and shapes.
LIAM: Actually, there are additional small cats
whose tails are being used to prop up
the edges of the platters
so that it doesn't go sideways
on the big kitties.
LAURA: Nice and strong kitty tails.
TRAVIS: Nope.
MATT: I would say,
Beauregard, Caleb, and Caduceus,
you hear muttering beneath her breath,
Cree goes,
"Fucking rich kids."
TRAVIS: Oh, sure (laughs).
I hadn't even gone there.
ASHLEY: I stick my finger in the fountain
so it stops the flow of the chocolate.
MATT: It goes, (slurps).
Your finger is now covered in chocolate.
MARISHA: Cree, I didn't catch where you were from earlier.
MATT: "Oh, I'm from all over."
MARISHA: Do you have, like,
a place you call home?
LAURA: Beau, try to ask it without
seeming like you're making fun of her at the same time.
TRAVIS: No, we addressed this year ago. It never works.
MARISHA: It's true, you're right, sorry.
Is there a place you call home?
SAM: Oh god.
TALIESIN: Oh no.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: You hear a small scream in the background.
LAURA: A glass shatters.
MATT: That's the equivalent of the Wednesday Addams smile.
Yep.
ASHLEY: In Addams Family Values, going (gasps).
"You look like you're going to a funeral."
"Wait."
(laughter)
Sorry, I love that movie.
MATT: That movie is fantastic.
ASHLEY: I love it so much.
MATT: Cree looks at you back
with an equal false grin.
"I'm from a lot of places."
MARISHA: Yeah, cool. Cool story, yeah.
MATT: The energy in the room is changing a little bit.
LIAM: I've never been called a rich kid before.
TRAVIS: "I'll be the victim."
LIAM: That's new.
TRAVIS: "All your life."
TALIESIN: Yeah, that's an odd call.
ASHLEY: Wait, I did have a question for you, Lucien.
So,
wait, do you sleep?
MATT: "Not in the conventional way."
ASHLEY: So how do you dream?
Because isn't that how you--
isn't that the thing
with the--
MATT: "Animals sleep,
"but minds that have been freed can dream
"anytime they like.
"In some ways I'm dreaming right now."
LIAM: Is that true for the lot of you?
MATT: They all shift all at once,
all the heads looking towards you
in creepy unison.
"Somewhat,
"through him."
MARISHA: You know, Lucien,
last night you were asking
if we had any good stories
and we were a little exhausted from the day,
but sleeping on it and just
reflecting on the events that have transpired,
I was reminded about one of the first outings
that we all went on as a group.
You familiar with Yeenoghu?
You heard of him?
MATT: "Can't say that I have."
MARISHA: This demonic entity.
We found ourselves in Alfield
and when we got there,
the entire town was under siege
by a bunch of gnolls.
We were asked to investigate it,
dug deeper and realized these gnolls,
these wild, chaotic animals,
these creatures,
they were formed into an organized cult.
Didn't really expect it and underestimated them
to be totally honest,
tracked them down into this cave
and gnolls and a few humans all there
and they were worshiping this manticore.
Feeding villagers to it
all in the name of this god,
this higher gnoll demon being.
Well, we quickly killed the manticore and her cub.
LAURA: That was sad.
SAM: Oops.
MARISHA: Yeah, it was actually kind of sad.
It was a tough choice, yeah.
Just like that.
Cult was done.
Cleared them out,
rescued some villagers.
MATT: "Would you say you were heroes?"
MARISHA: Of Alfield, yes.
At least for the day.
But, you know, that was a while ago.
Time has moved on,
a war has happened.
Sure, people have not necessarily forgotten, but--
MATT: "Tell me this, Beauregard."
MARISHA: Mm.
MATT: "Is that the only cult you've killed?"
MARISHA: Guess it depends on what you define a cult.
LAURA: (chuckles) (concerned noise)
TALIESIN: Traveler Con.
MARISHA: Traveler Con.
TALIESIN: That's two.
LAURA: Yeah.
MARISHA: I would say it is definitely the first cult
that we've killed.
Who knows if it'll be the last.
MATT: "Good story. Thank you for sharing.
"Well, that's the end of my sweet tooth.
"I think we'll adjourn for the night.
"Rest well."
And he gets up from the table.
Gathers his coat.
The others slowly follow suit
and give a nod.
Otis goes,
"Thank you for the meal."
(Otis grunts)
And Zoran's like, "Oh. Thank you for the meal. (spits)"
SAM: It's very gracious of you.
It's lovely dining with you.
LIAM: If there's anything else you need in the night,
there is a red rope pull in your sitting room.
The cats will come.
LAURA: They're great to snuggle up with.
TRAVIS: Or not.
SAM: No, you can't snuggle with me, no.
MATT: (as Lucian) "Appreciative."
And the Tomb Takers make their exit.
You hear, "Up." "Up." "Up." "Up."
(laughter)
MATT: And they all begin to drift
up to the chambers that you had given them earlier.
TRAVIS: I will set the tone.
LIAM: Boy, what are we doing?
LAURA: How many cults have we destroyed?
TALIESIN: At least two.
SAM: Well, I mean, there was also
the cults up in Rexxentrum, right?
LIAM: Obann's little party.
LAURA: There's also, like--
MARISHA: There's also like the--
LAURA: -- the cult, the Angel of Irons.
MARISHA: Yeah, the Angel of Irons, I mean, yeah.
And then there's Lorenzo's crew, the--
LAURA: Well, they were all part of that.
SAM: Were they religious fanatics?
LIAM: Nah, that was more of--
MARISHA: Slave traders?
TALIESIN: Yeah, that's not a cult.
You got to have your definition.
TRAVIS: Uk'otoa was kind of a process.
LAURA: That's true, that's true. Uk'otoa.
TALIESIN: More of a crimes--
SAM: Unless they're all connected,
right, Beauregard?
Maybe they're all one cult.
MARISHA: That gnoll cult also had visions of hunger.
It's been a theme.
I'm not going to say they're connected,
but it's hard not to look at our time together
and not see commonality.
LIAM: What's the hunger here?
MARISHA: Hunger for power.
LIAM: That's very universal.
MARISHA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: I, uh--
LAURA: Oh.
I'm looking through my old notes.
I was supposed to feed nuts to Nugget.
That's where I got confused.
I thought it was for Sprinkle.
LIAM: So did you kill Sprinkle?
LAURA: No, Sprinkle's obviously still alive.
We caught it in time.
LIAM: So, no peanut allergy or--
LAURA: No.
LIAM: Okay.
TALIESIN: Roll for peanut allergy.
MARISHA: Isn't Nugget a dog?
LIAM: Jester, sometimes you can
develop a nut allergy in the middle of your life,
so you should be careful with Sprinkle.
LAURA: Oh, well, Sprinkle gets bugs now.
LIAM: Bugs now?
LAURA: Bugs now.
LIAM: Okay. Bugsnax?
LAURA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Are we relatively alone?
Should we go somewhere else?
Another level to avoid prying ears?
Does your tower afford that?
SAM: Well, the iris has closed, right?
LIAM: I mean, we can distance ourselves,
but I'm assuming at any given moment
that we are more likely than not
to him overhearing us.
SAM: If you're worried about them overhearing,
Caleb, may I make a suggestion?
LIAM: Yeah?
SAM: Could you command Toto, Sprocket, Legume,
Filbo, Marta,
all of your cats
to start meowing at once.
Surround us and start meowing.
LIAM: Those are all your names now.
Your old names are gone.
Those are your names.
MATT: And they all look at you confused. (questioning meow)
LIAM: I'm sorry.
SAM: If they all start meowing in unison,
it will create a cacophony that will be hard to discern
and we can bunch up together and talk with relative ease.
TALIESIN: Or we could,
I don't know, just-- just
talk or chat--
TRAVIS: I was only going to ask.
I seem to be hiding my lust for a fight
better than Beauregard was at dinner,
but does your tower provide any sort of tactical advantage
in this sense? And two, should we contact Essek
and figure out what part of Aeor he is stationed on
since we seem to be approaching towards the Northwest?
LIAM: Well, if we are trying to--
if we are trying to separate ourselves,
we could go to the eighth and ninth floor.
Although I suppose he could have
heard me speaking in Zemnian
and remembered the Zemnian,
but that's the only thing I can think of.
TALIESIN: I suppose that we would know
if they were wandering around anyway
'cause the cats would tell us.
LIAM: Mm-hmm.
I kind of like this cat idea.
If I'm going to be honest, let's--
TALIESIN: Just trying to think of Fjord--
LIAM: Let me adjust it.
Let's meet in--
let's return to the--
hmm, the salon or the ninth floor is the question.
Let's go to the salon.
TALIESIN: I think the salon is the right choice.
SAM: To the salon!
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Up!
SAM: Throat's closing up there, Fjord.
TRAVIS: It is. It genuinely makes my throat tingle.
LIAM: It's actually one floor down
and I sort of have a downward--
TRAVIS: Shit.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Down!
SAM: (like Arnold Schwarzenegger) Down!
MATT: All right. As you all gather into the salon.
LIAM: Okay and I will pull--
I will walk over to the large, ornate fireplace in the salon
on the first tier of the three-tiered library salon
and I will pull the red rope,
plush pull by the fireplace and
cats appear at little cubby hole entrances
all around the salon.
Probably a hundred of them.
And I just say: In the key of G.
And then all of them start to go (melodic meows)
and melody weaves.
They don't all start at once.
It's sort of like row, row, row your boat-ing
around the walls
TRAVIS: Oh yeah.
LIAM: And there is just a low key
cat melody happening now
and there's no silence.
MATT: All righty.
ASHLEY: ♪ Meow Mix Meow Mix, please deliver ♪
LIAM: Come on, this is serious.
It's less staccato and more elongated haunting yowling.
(various yowling sounds)
MATT: It's a semi-melodic
in heat evening call in chorus.
LAURA: Wow, they're going to think
so many cats are fucking down here.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: So again, not that we would ever need to
and perhaps we might tomorrow evening,
is this place suited for fighting?
Can it be damaged and could they escape?
Could we trap them in a single level?
ASHLEY: I can't here you over the--
TRAVIS: (louder) Could we trap them--
LAURA: Real close, real close.
TALIESIN: Keep it down, come on.
MARISHA: Heads in, heads in.
TALIESIN: Heads in, heads in.
SAM: I don't think that--
I mean, unless I'm mistaken, Caleb,
this place doesn't have
any particular armaments or anything, does it?
LIAM: Well, you can play around a bit on the floor below us,
but if you're wondering if you can fight here,
you don't have to worry about damaging anything
because it all resets to my liking.
TRAVIS: Yeah, I meant more like,
could we trap them on a floor,
keep them from leaving
and then restricting the entrance and exit out of the room.
LAURA: Anything that happens,
I mean, he could cancel this tower.
TALIESIN: He can make the tower disappear.
LIAM: Well, I don't know if he can change.
Here's the thing, right now there is not
but tomorrow night there will be,
if we imagine it.
TRAVIS: That's what I meant.
Just a thought.
TALIESIN: What?
SAM: Like one of those irises has a locking mechanism or--
LIAM: Well, I can fiddle, yeah.
MARISHA: I like this.
SAM: Another idea, as we approach the entrance to A1,
if we needed to buy some time or something,
we could-- I mean, we have Dagen.
Dagen's on our tail so he could create a diversion
or blow something up
or fire a crossbow bolt from far off
and that might slow us down
if we're trying to buy time
for Essek to arrive or something.
TRAVIS: That's true. Even though
the cats are singing beautifully
I will summon the sword,
and I will cast See Invisibility
just as an extra precaution.
MATT: Okay, make an perception check.
TRAVIS: Whoop.
15.
MATT: 15, okay, cool.
Glancing around the chamber
surrounded by cats, you immediately--
and you glance up
and right above you guys,
you see a faintly visible arcane orb.
MARISHA: Motherfucker!
SAM: Motherfucker!
TRAVIS: (whistles, clicks tongue)
Mm-mm.
TALIESIN: Biding our time seems to be--
see where we end up.
TRAVIS: I mean, they have actually been quite nice.
I thought they would have tried something at this point,
but perhaps all our judgments were misplaced.
SAM: You view them as allies now, do you, Fjord?
TRAVIS: Oh, I don't know about that
but they seem to be at least participating
in their half of the deal.
LIAM: Well, they've been listening to us shit talk them
quite a bit on multiple nights.
So I don't think there's a lot of illusions here.
It's an uncomfortable alliance at best,
but we're curious to see the end of the road.
You can stop singing.
Cut it, cut it.
MATT: (cut off meows)
All cuts and they look at each other, confused,
and then they slowly begin to
filter out of the room through the--
SAM: Yeah, you guys blew it.
You blew it.
Get out of here!
MARISHA: (laughs)
TRAVIS: Prima donna cat's still going.
MATT: (musical meowing)
(laughter)
SAM: ♪ Memories ♪
MATT: It would be Memories,
it would be fucking Memories.
LIAM: Yeah, you, Root, stop.
Could you bring some whiskeys down?
Thank you.
MATT: (affirmative meowing)
LAURA: Still there?
MATT: They're still there.
SAM: Well, good night, then, I guess.
LAURA: Ooh, I wonder who it's following?
Everybody
take 10 steps back.
SAM: Okay.
Does it follow?
I think it's just stationary, isn't it?
LAURA: It might follow a certain person.
We could see who its actually scrying on.
LIAM: Jester, walk across
to the far side of the salon.
MARISHA: We walk to opposite points.
LAURA: Yeah, everybody walks--
MATT: Opposite spaces?
No, you can see now it is following Yasha.
TALIESIN: Huh.
TRAVIS: I knew it.
She dies.
SAM: Wow, special.
TRAVIS: Angel.
ASHLEY: (whispers) Hey!
LIAM: Angel blood.
ASHLEY: Go to bed.
(laughter)
ASHLEY: It's probably just 'cause--
LAURA: Maybe it's because he feels something for you.
ASHLEY: Maybe he remembers me?
SAM: Oh!
ASHLEY: (sighs) I don't know.
Again, that's that thing--
what is it again? Hope?
That I keep holding onto?
SAM: That's good, though.
ASHLEY: Yeah.
LAURA: Is it still there?
MATT: You see, over a few more minutes, it vanishes
and then it reappears,
this time above Fjord.
SAM: Well, shit.
LAURA: Interesting.
LIAM: I walk over towards Fjord.
MATT: Yes, above Fjord.
LIAM: I walk over towards you,
I look up at it.
Actually, I stand in front of you
so I can get in this view.
I'm assuming it's just like fisheye lens.
MARISHA: Yeah.
LIAM: And looks at him.
SAM: It's a ring light.
LIAM: What are we going to do here?
We're working together.
You don't really trust us,
we don't really trust you.
You have some idea of what you want to do with us.
We feel compelled to follow.
Are you having fun at least?
MATT: (whooshes) It vanishes.
TRAVIS: You were actually looking just off camera
but it doesn't really matter.
LIAM: Messing with his mind.
LAURA: (laughs)
TALIESIN: Always a conversation with the Wild Mother.
TRAVIS: I'll wait a minute.
Does it reappear in the room?
MATT: Mm-mm.
LAURA: I know, I want to try for
Divine Intervention tonight.
MATT: You can if you want to.
LAURA: I want to.
TALIESIN: What do you want?
LAURA: What I want--
TALIESIN: Tell me what you want.
LAURA: What I really, really want
is...
LIAM: ♪ What I want ♪
TRAVIS: ♪ I wanna, (ha) I wanna, (ha) I wanna ♪
LAURA: Is I want to ask--
MARISHA: I really, really, really
LAURA: -- the Traveler for help in--
MARISHA: -- want to zig-a-zig-ah.
in getting Molly back.
MATT: Okay.
Go ahead and make a roll.
LIAM: Come on, come on, Lavorre!
SAM: In the cake.
LIAM: Come on.
LAURA: Oh wait, no.
That could have been really good but I don't think it was.
It's 40.
MATT: 40?
No.
You need below your level.
TRAVIS and LIAM: ♪ Tell me sweet little lies ♪
LAURA: I know I do.
MATT: Good try, though.
The Traveler peeks into your ear and goes,
"I'm going to be honest.
"I don't trust him as far as I can throw him.
"And, well, with these arms, I can't throw him very hard."
LAURA: You're very strong, Traveler.
MATT: "I can be, you're right, right.
"But still, throwing's not my thing."
Caduceus, were you going to try something or are you good?
TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm thinking about what to try.
Huh.
I'd say,
I suppose any sort of advantage going into where we--
if we're going forward,
I would really--
I would like to just have a better idea
of what we're getting into.
I'd like to really know,
maybe even more than Lucien knows.
LIAM: You're going to speak?
MATT: So what's your question?
Are you doing Commune
or are you doing Divine Intervention?
TALIESIN: Divine Intervention.
MATT: Oh, okay.
TALIESIN: I'll commune in a minute.
LAURA: Ask for something big!
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA: Yeah.
LAURA: Your hair looks so good.
TALIESIN: Thank you, that's all I needed.
I would like this--
my Divine Intervention is I want this entrance,
the side entrance to be closed.
To be-- the secondary sneaky entrance,
I want it destroyed.
MATT: Interesting.
Okay, go ahead and give it a shot.
LIAM: Zig-a-zig-ah.
TALIESIN: That's a 39.
MATT: Unfortunately, no.
TALIESIN: Nah, it was worth a shot.
MATT: It was worth a shot, worth a shot.
TALIESIN: There's Commune and then there's also,
worst case scenario we can just--
SAM: What's that?
Oh.
TALIESIN: Super quick.
LIAM: You could be asking me so many things, Taliesin.
TRAVIS: (laughs) I know.
TALIESIN: I don't want to say it out loud.
We could just recall back to Jester's house
one of these days.
LIAM: Mm-hmm. Super.
Bail.
LAURA: (whispering) We could just go.
TALIESIN: At any time.
That's always an option.
TRAVIS: Should we check in with Essek?
LAURA: Sure, I can send a message.
SAM: Are we being watched?
LAURA: Well, he's still got it up for another hour.
MATT: At this point it'd be about,
I'd say 30 or more,
30 minutes or so left of the spell.
LAURA: All right, yeah, then I'll send a message to Essek.
What should I say? What should I say?
What should I say?
This is important.
MARISHA: Where he is.
SAM: We're going to be at Aeor in a day and a half.
MARISHA: Yeah.
SAM: Meet us there.
MARISHA: He was already there.
He was on the east side of--
SAM: Like, meet us at the entrance.
LAURA: There's so many entrances.
It's not like-- it's a city.
It's not like there one place to go into it.
TRAVIS: I mean, do we--
LIAM: He's on one side of the Grand Canyon
LAURA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Do we want to
complicate our arrival and lay a trap
or just make sure he stays clear?
SAM: I think maybe clear and follow us in?
MARISHA: He has so much other shit going on.
How are we going to convince him to do that?
SAM: He loves us!
He is one of the Mighty Nein!
MARISHA: He told us the last time we talked,
he was like, "I am running an operation
"for the Dynasty.
"I cannot abandon my post.
"I am in charge here."
That is what he said.
TALIESIN: I think that he'll understand
that this is bigger than that.
TRAVIS: They've collected lodestones.
They have prior knowledge.
They're coming to awaken the city.
TALIESIN: I need a third question.
TRAVIS: Wait for us.
LIAM: That's a big question mark with him, because he--
MARISHA: It's a huge question mark.
LIAM: He has told us to our faces
that he bears more allegiance to us
than any nation.
Whether that's true or not, who knows?
LIAM: Who knows what his allegiances are?
MARISHA: If anything, I think
if we utilize Essek in any way,
he will be a tool because there's no doubt
that he's not going to have some sort of
common interest in whatever they want.
TRAVIS: Right, are you proposing that he help us keep them
from going in or to follow us in?
On the sleeky.
LIAM: You are right there.
I mean, think of what he did for knowledge already.
MARISHA: Yeah.
LIAM: Just for research.
MARISHA: I think it's kind of--
LIAM: We kiss him into this.
MARISHA: He could work, like
throwing two Kaiju at each other
and seeing how they battle and you know, I don't know.
TRAVIS: We could also tell him all this
and he may just totally disregard it.
LAURA: We could also--
MARISHA: Yeah, that, too.
LAURA: --also Polymorph really fast
and fly away and just go.
TRAVIS: Right now?
LAURA: Just right now.
MARISHA: Go where?
Go to A1?
LAURA: Go to Essek, go now, abandon them, just go.
TALIESIN: In less than an hour.
SAM: That would be highly risky.
TRAVIS: (chuckles) Oh, yeah.
TALIESIN: Oh, wow, it would actually
the more I think about it.
LIAM: Well...
TALIESIN: Yeah, once we're out, we're out.
LIAM: Come closer.
TRAVIS: Uh huh. I'm looking out--
MATT: Make a perception check.
TRAVIS: 16.
MATT: Looks fairly clear at the moment.
TRAVIS: Yeah, leaving is perhaps not--
TRAVIS: Fairly clear, be advised, fairly clear.
MATT: You look around the chamber and feel pretty confident
with what you've seen before that
you do not see it around you.
TRAVIS: Pretty confident.
LIAM: Be advised.
LIAM: If you have a third question, though,
I've got a couple in mind.
LIAM: No, I don't have a question,
but just piggybacking on that,
everybody except for Veth and I
are going to be tired tomorrow.
MARISHA: Yeah.
LIAM: We could wake up in the middle of the night.
(snaps) (whoosh)
They'll wake up pretty quick
but we'll already be awake.
MARISHA: (whispering) Do we go back to our house?
LAURA: No.
LIAM: What are you saying?
TRAVIS: Oh, Jesus. (chuckles)
SAM: Where are we trying to get to ultimately?
LAURA: Right?
I think we should try to get to Essek.
SAM: Well, call him at first. Why don't we call him first?
TRAVIS: Let's do that.
MARISHA: Yes.
LAURA: All right, I'm going to send a message to Essek.
LIAM: Not at the destination?
LAURA: I don't know what I'm saying anymore.
SAM: Whatcha up to, can you help us?
LAURA: We'll be at Aeor in a day and a half.
TALIESIN: Can you help?
LAURA: Things are dire.
MARISHA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: They have lodestones.
LAURA: They have lodestones.
They want to bring back the Somnovem.
TRAVIS: There's a hyphen in that bit, right?
LAURA: Will you meet us? Will you help us?
MATT: Rather rapid response comes in.
"Jester, um...
"your words in some ways are alien,
"but I sense your worry.
"I'm at the outpost,
"southeast of the ruin.
"Come."
TRAVIS: He ain't comin'. He ain't comin'.
LAURA: We go to him.
SAM: Then what?
MARISHA: But then that--
MARISHA: But if we go to him, I'm here for that--
LAURA: We have him on our side and try to help.
MARISHA: We're going to have-- the plan
to have the entrance demolished wasn't bad
because that could have forced us
to have to redirect to him.
We would have to convince the Tomb Takers.
LAURA: Yeah, but the plan didn't work.
MARISHA: I know, so what's another plan to convince them
to go to the southeast side?
LAURA: We go away and they chase us.
SAM: (chuckles) Because we have a thing that they need.
LIAM: True.
TRAVIS: Ish.
MARISHA: Yeah.
SAM: We don't even know if they're
going in from the north whatever.
We think they are. They could be lying to us.
TRAVIS: Very true.
MARISHA: Fuck.
If we go in the middle of the night,
the rest of us would be exhausted.
LAURA: We go now, we leave now, we just go.
LIAM: If we go, we wait a couple hours until they're out.
TALIESIN: I'm starting a Commune spell
as this conversation's happening.
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: What difference does it make?
Lucien never sleeps anyway.
LIAM: That's true.
TALIESIN: Take a minute to--
MARISHA: How many more messages can you cast?
LAURA: I mean, I can send a couple more,
but that's using up spell slots.
Who knows if we tried to do anything,
they're going to chase us, we might have to fight.
TALIESIN: So where did he say the entrance was again?
TRAVIS: Northwestern.
TALIESIN: All right, I'm good whenever.
MARISHA: We lost a day of travel today.
We could try and rest and enact this plan tomorrow.
TALIESIN: Day after.
MARISHA: Tomorrow night.
TALIESIN: We're going to be exhausted.
LAURA: So will they, and you guys won't.
SAM: I feel great.
That tea had something in it, a kick.
LIAM: So we are going to just chance
that we can find this entrance, yeah?
LAURA: No. Well.
TRAVIS: Big gamble.
That's a big gamble for a tiny payout.
TALIESIN: I'll probably be hitting my trance pretty soon.
LAURA: I thought we were going to
be trying to find Essek's outpost.
SAM: For what, though?
LAURA: To get Essek.
SAM: But he said he's not leaving.
TRAVIS: Yeah, the difference between the northwest corner
and the eastern outpost could be like six to eight hours.
MARISHA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: It's pretty big.
LIAM: And maybe there is some benefit to having him join us
because he's so talented,
but what is to be gained by diverting away?
Because we don't know if he's going to come.
TRAVIS: I don't think--
LIAM: We don't know.
TRAVIS: I mean, we're either riding in
and playing it as we see it,
or we're kicking it off in here.
I look up at that, for the last look.
MATT: Make a perception check.
SAM: I think we ride in.
TRAVIS: 17. (wheezes) 14, 15, 16, 17.
MATT: Right? Hell yeah.
TRAVIS: It's climbing up by ones.
MATT: At the moment, nothing.
SAM: At the moment, Travis.
TRAVIS: Be advised, at the moment.
TALIESIN: All right, I'm going.
MATT: As they're having this conversation
their words begin to slowly fade, Caduceus,
as you begin to head into your trance
and the warmth of the Wild Mother's presence surrounds you.
You can hear the breeze,
you can hear the splash of water on brooks around you.
You feel yourself in the center
of an interpretation of the jungle
where you reconvened with your family.
It's welcoming, it's warm.
What would you like to ask?
TALIESIN: Lucien Nonagon, is this second entrance
that he's been talking about actually
where he said it was, to the northwest?
MATT: You get a stronger warm
breeze that blows past your back
over your shoulder in the direction that you're facing,
interpreting it as affirmation.
TALIESIN: Does he need all of us
alive for what he plans to do?
MATT: The breeze becomes extremely icily cold.
MARISHA: "All of us." "All of us."
TRAVIS: (whispering) Angel blood.
TALIESIN: Changes my thought, then, uh--
LIAM: We've seen angel blood before.
TALIESIN: Does he need all of us alive when we arrive?
MATT: The cold breeze continues blowing.
TALIESIN: Hm.
Interesting, all right.
TRAVIS: What was the last one again? I'm sorry.
SAM: Does he need us alive when we arrive?
TALIESIN: Does he need us alive when we get there?
And the answer is no.
MARISHA: But you got a confirmation on northwest side?
TALIESIN: That is-- he was not lying.
MARISHA: Do you have five questions,
or is that Speak With Dead?
TALIESIN: Three, five is Speak With Dead.
MATT: Yeah.
TRAVIS: "Need" and "want" are two different things.
ASHLEY: Okay, so.
TALIESIN: Maybe, maybe.
MATT: Three questions with Commune.
ASHLEY: He does not need us?
TALIESIN: Nope.
MARISHA: He doesn't need all of us
and he doesn't need all of us alive.
SAM: But he might need some of us.
ASHLEY: But does he need some of us?
SAM: Might need you.
LAURA: He might need you.
LAURA: How did he know you had angel blood?
ASHLEY: Probably from the vials.
LAURA: Oh, right.
ASHLEY: You know, I don't think it's...
TRAVIS: So again, what's to be gained
if we were to collapse this
entrance that he's hoping to take?
That it would force him to another one where--
MARISHA: I feel like that would only be useful
if we needed to buy time to get Essek on our side.
TRAVIS: Which I don't think we're going to get.
TALIESIN: I think it's a good call to talk to him.
TRAVIS: Unless we want to kick off a fight beforehand,
which I don't think any of us is feeling too strongly about.
I think we're along for the ride, right?
TALIESIN: For a little while.
SAM: Yeah.
TRAVIS: I love home field advantage,
that's the only reason I'm pushing it,
but I really want to see where this goes, too.
And we have that here.
LIAM: Well, for those of us interested in trying to redeem
our old friend, we certainly don't have a method
to do so at the moment.
The thin hope would be that--
something about where we're going.
Seems pretty thin.
TRAVIS: Mm-hm.
SAM: Everything's thin, I think we just need
to commit at this point.
We've been talking around this for two days now.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
LIAM: At least.
SAM: Let's just go.
TRAVIS: We're in it.
MARISHA: Go right now or go with them?
SAM: No, go with them, get a night's sleep.
MATT: Out of the corner of your eye,
you see apparate once more that same orb.
TRAVIS: (coughs loudly and sniffles)
MARISHA: Cats again?
TRAVIS: Ah-hah. Aaaah.
Ahghlhhgh.
SAM: Oh, no.
TRAVIS: (hacks)
LIAM: Several cats do now approach
you at my telepathic bidding.
TRAVIS: No, no, no, no, no.
(laughter)
SAM: I'm going to go to bed.
MARISHA: Well, before we go to bed,
I wouldn't mind reaching out to Yudala Fon,
if we're about to crash for the night.
SAM: Okay well, we're being, you know.
LAURA: Okay
MARISHA: Yeah.
SAM: Okay, go for it.
LAURA: Send a message.
LIAM: We're being so good.
LAURA: Hope I get to go to sleep tonight.
MARISHA: And I was just let them know that--
TRAVIS: --come into our rooms.
LIAM: They have locks on them.
MARISHA: Let them know--
TRAVIS: Just physical locks?
Or magical, 9th-level, wizard locks?
LIAM: No, there's no 9th-level.
ASHLEY: Just be alert.
LIAM: I've never brought anyone in here that I didn't trust.
SAM: Should we all sleep in the same room together?
TRAVIS: Well, I'm wondering if we all might.
LAURA: Yeah, that's--
TRAVIS: Sleep in the same room?
SAM: Yeah, let's do that.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
LAURA: With them?
TRAVIS: No, just us, instead of in our individual rooms.
SAM: Yeah, let's do that.
LAURA: Yeah, let's do that for--
MARISHA: Slumber party.
LAURA: Oh, yeah.
ASHLEY: Should we at least bring some--
MARISHA: Mattresses by the fireplace?
ASHLEY: Yeah, blankies and--
LIAM: Yeah, we could get those from the floor below.
MARISHA: Okay.
LIAM: We could sleep where we slept with the Yetis
or we could sleep in Veth and my chambers
with the laboratory in between--
TRAVIS: With the yetis.
LIAM: --or an the entire floor.
TRAVIS: Fuck me, this game.
SAM: Sure.
TRAVIS: (deep voice) Oh, this is quite--
(laughter)
LIAM: Listen, this is my doll house. I designed it.
I get to play with it.
(laughter)
LAURA: Okay, so I'm sending a message to Yudala.
MARISHA: Just let them know that-- very preoccupied.
You don't have to get into that detail.
Just tell them I won't be able to make it back
to the Cobalt Soul anytime soon.
So any pertinent information
they could deliver would be nice.
LAURA: Okay.
Hey.
We won't be able to make it back any time soon.
So any pertinent information,
please tell.
Use words carefully,
but we could use words.
(laughter)
MARISHA: Honestly, that all tracks.
MATT: Yeah, yeah.
MARISHA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: "But we could use words!"
MARISHA: Nothing about that didn't make sense.
MATT: Yudala Fon responds:
"Of course.
"Not pertinent,
"an operative by the ruins...
"previously, has information
"on what the Cognouza is."
SAM: (disappointedly) Oh.
We know that already, right?
MATT: Multiple forms of research going at the same time.
Everybody else overlaps information.
That's it.
TALIESIN: Wow.
MARISHA: Okay.
LAURA: All right, so that's good.
We know that we know... it.
SAM: Okay.
MARISHA: To me that tells us,
we might see friends.
LAURA: Maybe.
Or that could be---
TRAVIS: Do we want to find out?
LAURA: That could be the gnome that we scared off.
TRAVIS: Do we want to figure out who the operative is?
SAM: Well, it doesn't mean that the operative's there now.
TRAVIS: Or share what we know?
SAM: It means the operative had previously gone and--
MARISHA: It says "an operative by the ruins."
SAM: An operative by the ruins--
MATT: Previously.
SAM: -- who had been by the ruins.
MARISHA: Previously?
Okay, okay.
TRAVIS: Sorry. Doesn't mean where we're going.
LAURA: No.
MARISHA: Okay.
LAURA: All right, let's make a fort. A pillow fort.
MATT: All righty.
SAM: We shall rest.
MATT: So you guys are arranging in which room?
LIAM: I think that we should use Yasha's room,
because it is sparse.
We'll be sleeping on the-- yeah.
I'll bring some bed mats, but on the floor.
ASHLEY: Anybody can sleep in the bed.
I usually sleep in the chair
that's in there anyway, so.
TALIESIN: You should try the bed, could be exciting.
Try once.
ASHLEY: Yeah. We could also do the--
like Charlie and the Chocolate Factory?
You know, where--
LAURA: Oh yeah, yeah!
ASHLEY: Feets in?
LAURA: Yeah, yeah.
ASHLEY: Grandparents.
LIAM: Grandpa Joe.
LAURA: So cozy.
ASHLEY: Yeah. Feets together.
MATT: Grandpa Joe. What a terrible person.
When you really break it down--
(laughter)
- he's awful.
Sorry, I have a whole rant on that.
TRAVIS: Don't worry, Charlie.
Our happiness depends on you.
MARISHA: Yeah.
LIAM: But I make a run down to the large chamber
beneath the salon
with all of the sliding door closets.
The room of requirement that just offers up
what you need and get some bed rolls and blankets
and pillows and take a couple of trips back and forth
with Veth's help.
SAM: (surprised grunt)
LIAM: Yep.
Just so we have something to sleep on.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: Okay.
MATT: So you guys go ahead and set up in Yasha's room?
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: All right.
So you go ahead and eventually find yourself asleep
unless you have any other business to do?
LIAM: Are we all in for the night?
Does anyone need to leave this room for anything?
TALIESIN: Nope.
LAURA: Hold on, let me go pee.
MARISHA: (chuckles)
LIAM: Well, that's in here.
LAURA: Oh, I thought that was out--
I feel more comfortable peeing
in my own room. Hold on.
MATT and LIAM: (laugh)
SAM: I think she's going number two.
TRAVIS: Beau, go with her.
LAURA: Okay and now I came back.
MATT: While you're about,
you do hear this echoing whistle
and glance up, and you can just barely make out
the shape on the upper areas of the available tower.
You see Lucien on his own,
just walking around and just looking.
LAURA: Hey, Lucien!
MATT: The whistling-- (whistles, stops)
"Yes?"
LAURA: If you really want a fun tour, let me know.
I can play a fun trick.
MATT: "Do tell."
LAURA: Up. Fly up.
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: Do you want to go? Do you want to see?
MATT: "See what?"
LAURA: The fun stuff.
MATT: "Sure."
LAURA: "Do you trust me?"
MATT: Are you being deceptive in any way?
LAURA: Nope.
MATT: He takes your hand.
LAURA: I'm going to cast Polymorph on both of us.
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: And turn us into cats.
MARISHA: ♪ I can show you the world ♪
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: And I then run off and show him the little doors
so we can run around the tower as cats.
TRAVIS: Doesn't that let him into our room?
(laughter)
LIAM: No, there's a lock on the
inside of those doors into the rooms.
I'm not Scanlan Shorthalt.
(laughter)
There's no sneaking into my guests' chambers.
Everyone has complete privacy and they are in control.
MATT: Oh, the beard makes it creepier!
(laughter)
SAM: He can see you when you're asleep.
MATT: Oh my god.
TALIESIN: Just [inaudible] eyes.
MARISHA: No, creepy Santa, no.
MATT: Lucien gives chase for a little bit
and then seems to be preoccupied
with his own wanderings in cat form for a little bit.
LAURA: Okay.
I run up behind him and tried to tell him
that it only lasts for an hour,
but all I'm doing is meowing.
MATT: (meows)
LAURA: (meows)
SAM: She's been gone for so long!
We need to send out a party.
MATT: Yeah, how long do you wander about?
LAURA: I'll wander around with
him for 30 minutes and then--
MATT: Jester's gone for 30 minutes, guys.
SAM: (screams)
MARISHA: Maybe she's just taking a shit.
SAM: Yeah, that's true.
TALIESIN: She does take a while.
SAM: A huge shit.
LAURA: I did say I needed privacy.
SAM: Nothing but pastry and milk.
(laughter)
SAM: Her shits are gigantic.
LIAM: Just fills the chamber pot all in one go.
MATT: Yeah, no, there was a reputation around the--
(laughter)
MATT: -- the Château.
LIAM: I think 20 minutes into that,
I would have spoken to Frumpkin
and put out an APB amongst the cats.
MATT: Indeed.
SAM: All Pussy Bulletin?
LIAM: Yes.
MATT: Yep.
(laughter)
LIAM: That's Scanlan's house.
MATT: Okay, so--
LAURA: I'm a blue cat and when I turned Lucien into a cat
I polymorphed him into a little red cat
with little purple and teal swirls.
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA: Aww.
MATT: Oddly enough, though not of your implementation,
the cat has visibly nine eyes that are red that glow
through the fur across the cat.
LAURA: Wiggy! Okay, cool.
LIAM: Neat.
MATT: But as he's following you a bit
and then following your lead to go
through all these tunnels, it's interesting.
There's a playfulness to it that
belies some of the intense conversations that have happened.
And then you can see him growing
a little more curious to wander on his own
as you follow up behind and right then
Frumpkin arrives and approaches to go,
(meowing)
LAURA: (meows)
SAM: (laughs)
MATT: Looks over at Lucien.
(growls)
LAURA: (unconcerned meow)
(laughter)
MATT: (meows)
And goes and is trying to lead you back.
LAURA: I'll look at Lucien. I do a little shruggy shrug.
(questioning meow)
MATT: (indifferent meow)
And he darts off into the tunnels on his own.
LAURA: I'll follow Frumpkin.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: Oh, that one internet cat that goes--
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Shaquille O'Neal.
SAM: Yep.
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: I'll go with Frumpkin.
MATT: So you follow Frumpkin back.
When do you turn back into a cat?
LAURA: Well, I don't know, because if I turn back into me,
does that cancel it on--?
MATT: You can cancel it--
I'd say for the purposes of this,
because you use the object to twin cast it.
I'll let you cancel one
if you don't wish to cancel the other.
LAURA: Okay, I'll cancel myself when I get back in the room.
MATT: Okay, Jester arrives unharmed.
LAURA: Through one of the doors.
I'll (pat pat) on the little tunnel door.
TRAVIS: Wow, it was that bad,
you had to come in through another door, huh?
LAURA: (meows) (poofing)
I was a cat. Lucien's a cat.
LIAM: That's his secret?
LAURA: No. No, I turned to Lucien into a cat.
LIAM: Oh, yes, that's foolish of me, okay.
TALIESIN: Explains everything.
LIAM: Okay, so did you do your poo?
LAURA: I didn't poo, but--
LIAM: Still need to?
ASHLEY: Did you pee?
LAURA: I actually didn't pee.
SAM: (laughs) You forgot?
LAURA: I got distracted.
LIAM: Not even as a cat? Because it's free rein
when you're a cat here.
LAURA: You need a litter box, you can't just pee anywhere.
LIAM: You can see them every 20 yards inside the tunnels.
LAURA: Just-- this place would smell so bad!
Is it magic fey pee?
LIAM: Uh-huh.
LAURA: I'm just going to use your bathroom
and I'm going to go pee and I'll come back, okay?
But he's still going to be a cat for another 15 minutes,
if we want to do anything, he's a cat wandering around.
Or, you know we could just let him be a cat.
LIAM: Well, are we in here for the night?
SAM: Yes.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
LIAM: Okay, so to Frumpkin, who has returned as well,
I say: I want you to--
telepathically-- clog the arteries on five.
Fjord, cover your eyes.
And over the next three or four minutes,
cat after cat, after cat, after cat, after cat, after cat
vomits up like World War Z
in from the bottom and out from the top.
Not into the room we're in.
(laughter)
LIAM: Not the room we're in!
The central chamber just starts to fill
with spectral cats, like popcorn in popcorn popper and fills
like a glut in that center hallway.
And I say: This is wild. You want to see something funny?
And I open the little doorway
and there's, like, four cats like--
pressed in there.
SAM: Perfect.
LIAM: And I have just clogged all of five
and the tops of four and three leading into five.
MATT: Okay.
TALIESIN: I've had this dream.
LAURA: Everything's okay now.
TRAVIS: It was a nightmare.
MATT: The spell connection you have
with Lucien's Polymorph ends prematurely on its own.
LAURA: Oh, he's not a cat anymore.
MARISHA: Because he can cancel that shit at any moment.
LAURA: Well, yeah.
LIAM: He's pretty cool; he can do just about anything,
it seems like.
MARISHA: I know.
LIAM: All right, well.
TRAVIS: Going to bed.
SAM: Long rest.
LIAM: You and I need to rest because--
SAM: We need to actually rest.
LIAM: Ja.
MATT: Okay.
TRAVIS: I'll take first watch.
MATT: All right.
ASHLEY: I'm going to sit up against the door and just sleep.
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA: I take the bed.
LIAM: Oh man, I'm going to get
straight eight hours of sleep?
This is a fantasy.
TRAVIS: Yep.
LIAM: Wow.
ASHLEY: Are you guys doing the sleepies
with the feets, four people?
LIAM: Touching tips?
ASHLEY: The feets in the middle?
LAURA: Yeah.
ASHLEY: In the bed?
Four people on the bed?
LAURA: We'll sleep in the bed.
MARISHA: There's room.
MATT: So who's in the bed?
TRAVIS: Who's in the bed?!
MATT: All right.
MARISHA: All the ladies? Nah, jump in.
SAM: I'll jump in.
TRAVIS: ♪ All the ladies ♪
MATT: Okay, cool.
So all but Fjord eventually find their way to sleep.
Fjord, make a perception check.
TRAVIS: Not as good. Nine.
MATT: Nothing seems to catch your attention.
LAURA: Hmm. Mm-hmm.
MATT: Most of you asleep okay.
In the beginning, it's that tension of knowing
that the enemy is in the house
that leads to an uncomfortable rest.
MARISHA: It's coming from inside the house!
LIAM: (meows)
TRAVIS: Fuck.
[ominous music plays]
MATT: Caleb and Beauregard.
LAURA: Oh, because you looked.
MATT: Through the challenging wrestling tonight and sleep--
SAM: What?
TRAVIS: The book.
MATT: As darkness awaits you in that place of dreams
you find yourself in a cold dark space.
You remember nodding off,
but now you're here, conscious, it feels.
And you look around in this darkness.
MARISHA: Do we see each other?
LIAM: Yeah, are we aware?
MATT: No, you're unaware of each other.
MARISHA: Oh fuck.
MATT: This faint red glow
begins to warm in front of you,
like a tiny tinder flash that begins to burn
into a bright flame.
Until there before you, you see a massive glowing red eye
that just peers into you,
inspecting you, piercing you,
looking around, to you, within you.
No words, no language.
You immediately feel this sense of fear
and odd desperation,
but it begins to subtly pull away
as you feel it connect to you.
Like a single thought enters your mind,
the light seems to swarm and fill your space.
And all it says is--
without language, but feeling, emotion.
(echoing voices) "Welcome." "Welcome." "Welcome." "Welcome."
And you hear this faint sound.
This humming,
like thousands of bees buzzing
and as you listen, you begin to see scratches, shapes,
flashes of the pages that you had looked at in that tome.
And it's not buzzing; they're voices. They're screams.
Hundreds, thousands of them, just faintly out of view.
"Welcome."
The eye closes,
and you wake up, both shooting up at the exact same time
within the chamber. (gasping)
Catches your attention, Fjord, immediately.
TRAVIS: That's rare.
MARISHA: I grab my notebook.
I start trying to copy as much as I could from memory.
MATT: Okay, you start writing it down.
TRAVIS: What are you doing?
MARISHA: Shh!
That's not good.
MATT: You feel that fractal pull within the page,
this vertigo still lingering
after the dream that you both
had independently experienced.
As Beau's sketching in the book and holding it
in front of her.
Caleb, make a perception check.
LIAM: I wanted to ask also: If I think back
to what we looked at, which is hazy,
but does it make any more sense?
MARISHA: Yeah.
LIAM: Perception, you said?
MATT: Yes.
LIAM: Open. Up!
18.
MATT: 18.
As you're looking over towards
Beauregard and she's sketching,
you see the back of the hand that's holding the book.
ALL: (gasping)
MATT: A single red eye.
(gasping)
MATT: She's just drawing.
LIAM: And she's unaware?
MATT: Seemingly.
Nothing.
LIAM: Stop.
MARISHA: What?
LIAM: Take her hand and twist so that hers
is on top of the back facing up.
MATT: On the back of your left hand,
you see an identical red eye
on the skin to Lucien's.
LAURA: (gasps) Search your body!
LIAM: Yeah, yeah, I know.
Come here, come here, come here. Turn around.
I look where the tattoo on her neck is.
Are there any more?
MATT: No.
MARISHA: I look at your neck.
MATT: Nothing.
MARISHA: Your arms, he had one on his arm?
LIAM: Check the gooch.
(laughter)
MARISHA: Oh no!
LIAM: That's the last place you look.
LAURA: We wake up, Caleb butt-ass naked.
(laughter)
SAM: And Beau's like--
MATT: Somnovem's like, "Oh, this was a bad idea."
TRAVIS: I'm sitting there holding the Star Razor like--
LIAM: Picks up Caduceus' staff and is like--
I do actually-- Ichabod Crane pulls off his shirt
and I start looking at bare chest and arms to see everywhere
and turning around in front of Beauregard and Fjord.
MATT: As Caleb's pulling back his robes,
you can see on the right shoulder
just above where the bicep and deltoid meet,
you see a similar single red eye.
LIAM: Ha ha ha ha.
MATT: The rest of you begin to come to, hearing the shifting
and ruckus and conversation and tension in the room
is immediately accessible to you.
TRAVIS: Wish I had that spell now.
LIAM: Does it feel like anything?
MATT: No, though strangely warm.
MARISHA: I look down at my notes. What did I draw?
MATT: You can see-- you recall writing your dream,
the words of it,
and you look down at the page again
and it is just
scratches and lines and nothing.
TRAVIS: (chuckles) Hoo.
SAM: Boy.
LAURA: What happened?
MATT: And that's where we're going to pick up next episode.
(groaning)
LAURA: No!
(laughter)
LAURA: Are you kidding?
Holy--!
MATT: You asked to read the book.
MARISHA: You're right, you're right.
Open up-- yeah.
TRAVIS: Together, you did it together.
LIAM: I'm just glad it's not on my taint.
(laughter)
MARISHA: I don't know if it's good that we did it together
or bad that we did it together.
TRAVIS: I don't think it's good.
Don't think it's good.
MATT: That one itches.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
Really hard to get to.
LAURA: (whispering) Welcome.
MARISHA: Welcome.
TALIESIN: It sees.
LIAM: Welcome to Berlin.
SAM: You're level one now.
MATT: Oh man.
MARISHA: Level one, yeah.
LAURA: Welcome to the Eyes of Nine.
MARISHA: Oh my god.
TALIESIN: Wow.
LIAM: We'll be in all the nine groups.
MARISHA: Just a starting fee of 199 gold
for the first six months.
LIAM: You have to listen to
a certain number of tapes.
(laughter)
MARISHA: By buying these amount of books.
TRAVIS: And you have to recruit only ten people.
MARISHA: Yeah, yeah.
TALIESIN: Wow.
MARISHA: Fuck!
SAM: Well, that complicates things!
TRAVIS: Just a titty bit.
TALIESIN: Wow.
LIAM: I love it.
TALIESIN: I'm so happy.
SAM: We have to kill Caleb and Beau now, too.
LIAM: I love it.
TALIESIN: Matt, this is more than I could've ever asked for.
TRAVIS: You essentially turned the
wizard and the monk on us?
Oh no.
SAM: Or made them more powerful, maybe?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
LIAM: Then perish.
MATT: (laughs)
LAURA: Oh no.
MARISHA: The one who's obsessed
with gaining control of his domain.
LIAM: Shut up, baby, I know it.
(laughter)
MARISHA: And the one who is skeptical,
fucking hates all of it.
Fuck.
TRAVIS: You did look at it together.
MARISHA: We did, yeah.
TRAVIS: That was probably dumb.
In that moment.
Probably shouldn't think about it.
We blessed and we guided
and we didn't go like, "Maybe one of you goes first?"
MARISHA: Well, we kind of knew, could have-- yeah.
TALIESIN: Risk was always there.
TRAVIS: Yeah, we fucked up.
TALIESIN: But wow.
MATT: Hey man, you read the Elder Sign. (chuckles)
MARISHA: Yeah, it's full Necronomicon.
ASHLEY: I want to keep playing. I want to find out more.
MATT: I know, I know. Well, soon enough.
LIAM: Get one step ahead of him,
learn something he didn't know,
and instead we stared into the Necronomicon.
MARISHA: We followed in his footsteps.
LIAM: Yeah.
MATT: Well.
LIAM: That's cool.
MATT: We'll pick up from that revelation next time.
SAM: Next week.
ASHLEY and TALIESIN: (groan)
MATT: (chuckles) Super excited.
Thank you all for joining us.
Before I forget, because I wanted another clarification
on this. There was confusion online
and I wanted to confirm as well.
I think I said it before, but the combat wheelchair
that I had been using in the game is not designed by me;
it is designed by Sarah Thompson
@MustangsArt on Twitter.
Do not give me the credit.
It's all their work and they're amazing.
Anyway, thank you all so much for joining us.
We love you very much, and is it Thursday yet?
Good night.
TRAVIS: What did you two do?!